hello and greetings from saint
petersburg russia perhaps you have heard
that prices go crazy in russia and
russian ruble is a joke basically losing
its value for like 100
today i'm here at a huge local
supermarket where i actually visited a
few months ago and made a video what can
i get here for 5 000 rubles i want to
bring you to one of my favorite
supermarkets prisma and see what can
5000 troubles get you in russia
let's go there
i think it's interesting to see if
prices went up since that time and if
yes for how much it's not the cheapest
place in russia it's more like medium
range or even a little bit above medium
range uh supermarkets talking about
prices and this stuff that you typically
see here is slightly more expensive than
let's say at local magnet or pitorchka
or dxc supermarket but last time i went
to shop at this very place and i
recorded the exact prices so i think
it's really
nice to use this place for comparison
the first product i got last time was
twarok and here's the dairy
lines and i think it is somewhere over
here yeah here is the tv rock i've been
buying last time a kilo of good baroque
also nine percent will be better and it
costs 300 rupees and last time it cost
300 rubles almost and now it's 355. it's
like 20 percent more expensive than a
few months ago next thing we're gonna
look for here is malacca at borne with
this lovely cat although this one is one
point half percent and i was buying
it uh exactly this one malacca
which means a higher percentage of fat
here is four to four point five and it
costs 72 rubles price difference is
crazy right now it's 106 rubles for this
bottle and last time i paid 73 rubles
for the same bottle so it's like more
than 30 percent
of price increase that is a lot the next
thing we're gonna find is eggs and
honestly even if we do not have the
current crisis between russia and
ukraine expert going up in price anyways
and i'm a little bit terrified to see
how much it is right now it's actually
over here this one is what i typically
get for myself 105 rubles for 10 pieces
it's like ross car 10 of them
with c0 category and now it cost 115
rubles which is like 15 more expensive
than before so you clearly see a pattern
that stuff is getting more expensive at
this grocery store but uh it's not like
equal not everything gets like 30
percent more expensive eggs just went 15
just 15 percent that's actually a lot
and the twaroc and the milk were like 30
40 percent more expensive good fish is
expensive here it's sold here in tiny
packs of
120 grams 200 grams and it cost actually
more than a kilo of meat but i like
eating it anyways even though it's quite
expensive and here's what i typically
called guest it's a 300 gram pack for
500 rubles and last time this pack costs
450 rupees which is actually not that
low price for russia it's quite a lot of
money but today this same thing
is
730 rubles which is like
60 percent more expensive than before
that's
that's crazy the beef cost more or less
the same as before and i don't really
understand why it's like this but it's
good thing to see at least some prices
didn't go up as crazy
and now let's go see if
we can find the same noodles and rice
here's the noodles i typically get the
spaghetti barilia and that cost 80
rubles for this pack so beryllian
noodles this exactly the one i showed
you before and 80 rubles before and 110
rubles right now about 30 percent more
expensive and here is something that i
don't really understand um i was buying
such kind of packs with buckwheat and
also mix of grains the buckwheat cost 80
rubles and the mix the authority of such
stuff is
65 rubles but now the only thing that we
have is rice in bags in such kind of
small pockets and is actually getting
out of stock really soon and it's also
getting more expensive than i've seen
before although i can't remember the
exact price for this product anyways
it's really strange to see no buckwheat
at all at this supermarket here is a
pack of cucumbers for 70 rubles some
onion for 40 rubles per kilo dirty chip
carrots or 50 rubs per kilo head also
dirty potato again for fifty rubble a
kilo i found the cucumbers of the same
size like 300 grams although it's a
different company and it cost like three
times more expensive than before onion
10 percent more expensive dirty cheap
carrot
20 percent more expensive and dirty
cheap potato also
20 percent more expensive before going
to the next place i actually want to
thank you so much for being such a
supportive community within the last few
weeks i received a lot of comments under
my videos i received a lot of dms on
instagram saying so nice stuff from
people around the world i also see much
more people supporting me on patreon
which also means a lot to me it all
motivates me to continue sharing my
daily life with people around the world
and basically
do the things that i'm doing
for the last year thank you so much for
that like it really means a lot to me
let's continue our supermarket tour
people buy sugar is crazy like this is
literally out of stock and this is the
sugars that i typically might buy one
kilogram costs 95 rubles which is like
70 80 more expensive than usual and the
sugar that is actually available you
either have such kind of tiny cubes
which is also somewhat more expensive
than usual and such kind of coconut
sugar or
have no idea how to translate this kind
of sugar or
extra sweet sugar for ridiculous price
of like 200 rubles for less than a kilo
or 400 rubles for like 250 grams i see
that people are buying a lot of flour
too and here's actually a huge pile
stock of flour and i've seen a worker
just transporting it from here to the
rose and it actually cost more or less
like before like two kilogram of local
wheat flour for 100 rubles i think it
might be like 10 or 20 percent up let's
check water and some alcohol because
it's something that i remember price is
perfectly for
but even without that i think you
understand the general idea behind all
the stuff i shared this video the prices
go up because russian ruble
is literally a joke now and that's
actually going to be a huge problem for
regular russian people because price go
up this way
and our income goes up maybe just this
way in terms of rubles and it drops down
dramatically if you try to convert it
into any foreign currency in dollars
russian salary will be a joke even more
than before well talking about water
here's a lot of stuff and i'm not sure
if every single price is staying the
same but actually for waters that i
typically buy for myself if i go welcome
the city the price is about the same as
before my favorite champagne now cost
exactly 1 000 rubles which is 10 percent
more expensive than i typically bought
it before campari liquor is about 20
more expensive and it's actually not the
saddest stuff the second thing is that
soon we will not have campari liquor at
all because they say they are leaving
russian market
vodka gets more expensive too this is
fat azir vodka coming from my siberian
hometown before i bought it for 230
rubles three dollars and that was a
standard choice during my university
years and now it is
300 400 rubles that's like what 80
percent more expensive
that's a lot but the worst thing is
actually not seeing all the prices go up
these days the worst thing is we are
just in the middle of it and russian
ruble is not settled yet it's like
jumping up and down more jumping down of
course and maybe in one or two weeks the
prices will go
up even bigger so i think i'll make
another video of going to supermarket in
a few weeks to see
how expensive everything gets and
perhaps that time i'll visit supermarket
like magnet of your crosstalk which is a
more typical place for russians to go
shop for groceries thank you for
watching this video and if you want to
see more stuff from russia watch this
next