hello from russia my name is nikki i
live in saint peter's work city and in
this video i am going to share every
single sanction that affects me
personally because we are living in the
crazy time when regular people are
getting affected a lot by all this
craziness happening around us today we
are going to talk a lot about two things
first is the money issue because
sanctions basically made russian ruble
fall down dramatically and the second
big thing we are going to talk about
companies leaving russian markets and
basically banning russian users
which is another like crazy things that
i still don't understand like sanctions
i can understand partially not every
single one but partially i can
understand it but companies live in
russia
and banning all users from russia there
is something uncomprehendable for me
maybe somebody could explain
this kind of stuff
whatever i'm staying here at a random
park of saint petersburg on the way back
home and let's do a sanctions talk
i was thinking about what sanctions
should i put in the beginning of my list
and i realized that it should be two
sanctions or two things that somehow
damage people who are against the things
happening in ukraine and have almost no
um influence on people who are staying
inside russia and supporting
the
in ukraine
so the first one is visa and mastercard
leaving russian market
i have a mastercard it's issued by
russian bank and actually inside of
russia i can use it same way like i did
before i can withdraw my money i can pay
my bills let's say go go into a
restaurant and use my mastercard to pay
for everything that's all right the only
inconvenience i have now is
i'm not able to use my phone for pay
with nfc technology but honestly that's
not a big deal i carry my bank card and
plastic bank card and
i can use mastercard inside russia but
once i have to go abroad let's say if i
or any other person have troubles this
russian government has to flee escape
the country and go somewhere let's say
to european union or somewhere like
turkey or somewhere to asia whatever it
is
then once you leave territory of russia
your mastercard becomes a piece a
useless piece of plastic like visa and
mastercard i don't understand why they
did it the second thing that i also
don't comprehend is youtube banning
advertisements inside of russia
basically hurting people
and freedom of speech a lot let me
explain
there are a lot of independent media and
independent journalists who were doing
really good job at informing russian
people about what's really going on
around the world they relied a lot on
advertisements and brand deals on
youtube it was their main source of
income but now with youtube cancelling
all the ads and now these brands be not
able to pay them they literally have no
way to earn money so basically when
youtube says we are not going to show
any ads in russia that's a huge hit for
lots of bloggers from russia including
the independent medias talking about
myself personally this actually does not
affect me a lot i have about five
percent to seven percent of my viewers
who actually watch me from russia so i
don't lose a lot in this case but
anyways the assumptions that affect me
because i am able to receive less
information from the sources that i get
used to receive than before coming back
to visa and mastercard right now i am
not able to use my card to pay for any
international companies for any
international products let's say i no
longer can use photoshop legally i no
longer can pay for netflix and i no
longer can pay for vpn which is actually
a huge deal for russians because now we
need it to reach instagram soon maybe
we'll need a vpn to reach youtube also
facebook is blocked twitter is blocked
linkedin is blocked for all these i'll
need vpn free vpns still work but i
prefer using paid vpns and it was really
hard to actually buy a paid vpn with my
card being rejected every single time i
tried to pay for that after all i paid
by crypto because somebody donated me
money on crypt and i was like wow that's
my first creep to purchase but whatever
there are also a lot of other companies
that put their let's say their own
sanctions to russians i'm talking about
companies like booking.com
like airbnb and other companies that has
their own sanctions towards russians is
paypal they basically banned all the
accounts of russian people how crazy it
is and before i used paypal for
accepting donations from people and also
for getting payments for my russian club
but apparently now it's no longer
working tick tock is another huge hit
for me personally because it was my
largest platform where i was posting
videos therefore earning money affording
my living in saint petersburg city now
tiktok blocked the possibility to post
videos and to go live for every single
user in russia and that's huge including
me personally there are some bloggers on
tiktok who actually keep posting but you
have to do some tricks not using vpn but
another kind of stuff and i simply don't
want to over complicate my life with
that and actually having tick-tock
blocked is not only talking about money
i receive personally but it's also about
having an information bubble for the
entire population of russia because
tick-tock is not only about
entertainment it's also not only about
educated it's about having a connection
person to person between people around
the world i used to follow a few
influencers who was covering the stuff
happening in ukraine i actually followed
a few news medias on tick tock because
they had a really nice format of sharing
the information now i'm not able to
reach it because tick tock blocked
russians it's not like russia block
tiktok is they blocked us so the general
outcome of these money related sanctions
for me personally it's much harder to
make money online the way i did before
and second it's hard to spend my money
uh to buying the things that i actually
get used to buy before if you like my
content and want to support me and my
channel the best you can do is having a
monthly subscription so i'm able to plan
ahead and possibly grow a team around my
channel i'll leave links to patreon
community and to my crypto wallets for
single donations in the description of
this video
since the beginning of the sanctions we
had russian ruble go crazy literally
it's a joke now because russian ruble
lost like 70 80 of its value and if you
think it's not a big deal let me repeat
myself from one of my other videos uh
imagine this is a price level from like
one month ago and the prices uh for most
of the things got like 10 15 20 more
expensive now for certain list of things
they're actually 50 100 percent more
expensive now but the salary of russian
people it was like this and maybe it
will be like five percent more maybe 10
percent higher than before or maybe even
stay on the same level or for many
people it will actually go down many
people will face the unemployment
problems hopefully not myself but i see
a lot of people around me are actually
getting this problem like this morning i
receive news that seven thousand people
from shermiva airport will stay home and
have no work to do for the next month
having about two thirds of their monthly
income
still there is a reducement of their uh
regular income and in the future they
might be investigation when they have to
find a new job so talking about the
prices like yesterday i went to my local
supermarket and i tried to buy uh some
stuff that i get used to that i get
every single time i was live streaming
on instagram talking to people about how
has changed in russia and i realized
that the milk i used to buy before is
about 40 percent more expensive the eggs
15 more expensive and the water i
actually don't remember the exit price
but it felt like 10 20 percent more
expensive than before and now imagine
that every single thing around you gets
more expensive but you make the same
amount of money every single month like
it doesn't change
the crazier is about technology russian
cars that's so expensive now for locals
foreign cars that's even more expensive
a few days ago i visited an app store
just to check how much is the laptop
that i bought one year ago for myself
and it went
115 percent higher compared to what i
paid a year ago talking about the
companies that leave russia you most
likely heard like there's no more
mcdonald's there's no more starbucks
there's no more ikea and many many other
companies that disappeared from russian
market and there is an opinion that it
might be actually beneficial for russia
because now russians have less
competitions therefore it will be a good
time for russian businesses and so on
and so on but in my opinion that's
actually a tragedy for russia because in
the near future most likely will be able
to get things that we get used to with a
poor quality for a higher price every
single thing that i wear now like
literally every single thing from my
glasses my coat my shoes my pants my
even my underwear it is made somewhere
abroad some of my stuff is from uniqlo
they already quit russian market some of
my stuff is from other stores that i
still stay in here but raising prices
and all this makes me think what is
going to come next i used to go to a
foreign supermarket prisma and i
actually made a video about that showing
how price is different like four months
ago and now
i made it a few weeks ago when prismo
was still opened but right now you guess
what prisma is closed so the basic
outcome is
russian people get more poor and we have
less opportunity to find the things that
we get used to have including myself
personally i realize that there are
plenty of other sanctions and actions by
single companies that might affect my
life that i haven't experienced yet like
the closed sky let's say if i want to
fly to europe it's not possible because
russian planes simply cannot go there
and traveling to anywhere basically cost
now five even ten times more expensive
than it was just a month ago we also
have no access to new american movies
which is actually sounds like a very
minor thing compared to all this stuff
happening around me in this video i was
talking only about the sanctions and the
actions of foreign companies that
somehow affected me and i said no single
word about the actions of our own
government that also affect our daily
lives a lot i actually wonder if it's
something interesting for you to hear
about i don't know guys it's like very
spontaneous video i was just going home
through this park and i decided to
record this tiny speech of mine talking
about the sanctions and the things that
affected my daily life a lot
i realized that what is going on there
in ukraine is much much more severe it's
much harder for people who live there
and struggle with their daily life but
i'm staying here in russia in some sense
that i can share with you share my
experience of being a regular russian
person in saint peter's world during
these crazy times and i hope to continue
being your tiny window into what's going
on here during this craziness thank you
for being with me thank you for your
support and if you want to watch more
stuff from russia check out this video