one week ago I could not expect to say
this but all recent events made me
reconsider my decision to stay in Russia
I also received hundreds of messages
saying that I should leave Russia while
I can and here I am saying that I have
to leave Russia to leave Russia and I
don't like all the click-baity things so
here is a list of key major things that
I'm going to talk in details in today's
video I made a decision to leave Russia
on September 22nd my flight from
Petersburg to Moscow to Istanbul cost me
about 1500 American dollars and I spent
about two hours catching that ticket and
I left on September 25th there was no
real interrogation on the border and
during passport control I only was asked
one question related to mobilization
this experience of running from Russia
was quite bizarre so let me share all
the awards house and whys is it even
grammatically correct to say this in
English hi my name is Nikki I live in
Istanbul City for the next couple of
months yeah that's Istanbul behind me I
started this Channel with lots of travel
videos and then shifted to cultural and
entertaining videos about daily life in
Russia and recently most of my content
is like updates on what's going on there
in Russia nowadays still I want you guys
expect ever variety of content from me
I'll keep filming updates on Russia as
long as you are winning to see that and
I will keep making videos about my
personal life and travels as well I hope
you will enjoy it and if you do please
subscribe to my Channel with
notification Bell and now let's talk the
living from Russia experience
[Music]
so the Story begins with a why why I
changed my decision to stay in Russia am
I going to leave the country when am I
going to go to like St George or
anywhere else as soon as possible and
the answer is no I'm not going to into
running from Russia ASAP and the answer
is kinda simple I was too attached to
two things Saint Petersburg and Lisa I
really did not want to leave her behind
and live alone so what changed since
that is I took some time to reconsider
am I really going to put myself in
danger staying in Russia for longer and
not and the answer was surely yes but
this yes I'm putting myself in nature
might be a bit different from what you
guys might think I saw a lot of people
writing that I might get drafted really
quick staying in Russia that I will
receive call to Army letter or anything
like that and the thing is I did not
worry about receiving the Army letter
because basically in Russia there are
two ways how people receive it the first
one is Army can send you a letter to the
place of your official registration and
and second Army can send the letter to
your official place of work and you
guess what I didn't have any of this so
I did not live under my official
registration address and also I did not
have any official job placement at a
company I mean I'm just working
individually so seeing myself in this
condition made me think that I am kind
of safe for now and I'm not going to get
drafted not this week not next week not
even next month or in two months and the
scene that really changed my opinion was
another realization a realization that
maybe right now I can get away with this
draft and mobilization stuff but in some
time in the coming months I might get
really big trouble with leaving Russia
maybe it will be not possible for me to
leave Russia let's say in December or
maybe in the next year that's actually
the biggest reason why I decided to
leave and I thought it's better to live
before the referendums will be over and
people will start getting refused to
leave the country which is happening
like at this moment so I feel being
really lucky to live on time and here I
can say that all people who commented
like things sneaky leave Russia accept
and people who send me like really
really long emails all of you guys made
me think that maybe I am a little bit
too naive thinking and saying that I'm
staying in Russia and I have to
reconsider and also because of you I was
able to purchase really expensive
tickets like literally 48 hours after I
made the decision and leave on time like
really I'm thankful to millions of
Silent Watchers and thousands of people
who comment under my videos writings
that thing about Nikki why you're still
staying in Russia and really grateful
for people who supported me on YouTube
and patreon communities because of them
I was able to live on time and get the
ticket without thinking that maybe I
wait for one more week because ticket is
like 50 cheaper after one week since
that time yeah guys for that really
appreciate
foreign
[Music]
taxi for another place it's a hot day
I'm a little bit starving I don't want
to drink something cold should not
texting Istanbul is like a nightmare for
me compared to what we had in Russia
every single time so complicated there
are taxes like that you see the yellow
car and I can wave to that car and like
ask to stop but what I like to do is
using apps for its app and there are
some apps for calling taxi in Istanbul
they don't work well I had to wait for
like 10-15 minutes sometimes which is
very long time for somebody who gets
used to ordering texting Russia but
anyways mine is coming soon oh that is
the one you see
thank you
yeah
[Music]
I didn't order this music it's so fun
[Music]
sometimes there is no rules that
crossing the streets just try to survive
and not get under the car
we are going to Starbucks
in Turkey like every single coffee store
has a lot of cats and sometimes real
huge dogs but anyways as for the process
of buying tickets and flying from Saint
Petersburg there is also a bizarre
experience in the evening where I
decided to leave I was thinking like
okay now I gotta spend a lot of money
for getting that tickets out of Russia
and I expected it to cost like quite a
lot of money but what I did not expect
oh look at here we have a visitor but
what I didn't expect it actually was not
that easy to buy a ticket I was checking
on various websites trying to find the
ticket out of Saint Petersburg and I
spent the entire two hours updating the
websites and finally picking various
tickets trying to fill in my info and by
the time when I was writing all the
details like my name my dated versions
and so on the ticket was already
purchased and I had to find another
ticket so it took me a few hours to
figure things out and understand why
it's happening like that so every single
time when you buy a flight you have
about 30 to 50 minutes booking time when
a ticket company basically reserves a
ticket for you so you have enough time
to fill in in the bank card details and
pay for your flight and people were
using this as a backup option I believe
they picked one flight that maybe was
not really convenient for them they
reserved it for like 30-50 minutes and
they were using this time to find
another ticket that might be having a
better time or maybe a better price such
kind of system exploiting I also use
that on aeroflot website Russian
Airlines I booked a ticket for about two
thousand dollars just in case if there
are no other left and during these 50
minutes I found a few more flights more
affordable like a little bit more
affordable and also with much much
better timing so after all I purchased
the ticket from aeroflot from Saint
Petersburg to Moscow and then to
Istanbul and after that I had my last 48
hours in Saint Petersburg basically to
finish this stage of my life and guys
that wasn't easy because I had very
limited time to say goodbye to Saint
Petersburg and that felt really weirdly
to me yeah thank you first and only
freelance casting agency in turkey and I
have no idea what is that but that guy
just gave it to me so I had about 48
hours to pack all my things to finish
all my business in Saint Petersburg to
spend my time with girlfriends and then
leave my country and we didn't do
anything special during this time we
were just peacefully spending time
together and after these two days I
simply went to pull cover airport in
Saint Petersburg had a flight to Moscow
past the border and arrived to Istanbul
City let's actually go to another
location I'm gonna show you how the
flight was going and did we have any
incidents during passing the border
control
[Music]
how to say thank you in Turkish
the secure a fishy colors
lovely man and this kind of pastry is
called sea meat basically that's bread
full of seasoning seeds incredibly
delicious snack five turkishly right you
know when I was thinking about what kind
of experience that's gonna be live in
Russia during this time I thought maybe
that it's gonna be like a sausage party
I don't know 10 women in the plane and
the rest of people are men I don't know
under 35 under 45 years old fleeing
Russia and partially these pictures that
I had in my head became true I saw a lot
of relatively young men in the airport I
was in the plane that I was taking but
also there were quite a lot of demons so
perhaps there is difference from normal
times but if I didn't know what is
happening right now at this moment if I
just blindly go to the airport not
really news perhaps I wouldn't realize
that anything goes not as usual I was
living in Russia relatively early that
was the morning of September 25th and
that time across the entire country we
didn't have any messages on people being
rejected to leave the countries was
pretty peaceful at crossing the border
and still I was really curious what kind
of questions they will be asking me and
will be there any interrogation maybe
something like Natasha had living to
Belize and once I was coming to the
borderline to the Customs officer I was
like all right I'm gonna like talk
peacefully I'm not going to be nervous
and it's like that but the only question
that I was asked was when did you buy
the ticket and this is quite a weird
question I did not understand why they
asked this to me I do not understand it
until this very moment maybe you have
some theories go comment about that I
answered normally that I purchased it
just two days ago and the Customs
officer was just satisfied to have this
answer from him he looked at me smiled
and say Enjoy your flight or something
like that I took my passport and just
walked away I realized now that perhaps
I'm being lucky with like having no
problem in the Customs the day I'll left
because the next day two days ago like
literally every single day after I
arrived to Istanbul I saw messages
stories of people who were Crossing
Borders by various ways and flying from
Saint Petersburg and flying from Moscow
traveling by land to Georgia and
Kazakhstan to Belarus to Finland and
some of these people were refused to
leave the country so yeah on the day
when I was leaving there was nothing
extraordinary happening like the plane
was entirely occupied like literally
there was no single available seat in
the plane and we safely arrived to the
city of Istanbul and here you may ask
like why Nikki why Istanbul why you
didn't choose countries like I don't
know Georgia or maybe something else
like so many Russian YouTubers fly to
Georgia hello Natasha hello Roman hello
Zach hello maybe somebody else but
personally I actually prefer Istanbul
rather than living in the Belize or any
other city in Georgia I visited Georgia
in this summer just a few months ago and
I really enjoyed it although I enjoyed
it as a destination to travel for a
short time and I wouldn't like to live
in Belize for like months and months
what other countries could I go I also
could go to ex-soviet Union countries
like I don't know kazakhstan's Pakistan
Tajikistan I don't want to go there to
stay for a long time although I would
really like to travel there someday I
couldn't go to the European Union I
simply do not have any visa for them so
it's like not an option what else I know
that many people went to United Arab
Emirates also a lot of people went to
India Goa and Southeastern Asian
countries and that's where eventually
I'll be heading after Istanbul but I
decided to stumble oh mate look at this
lovely dog
this park is occupied by dogs by people
by people by people so yeah I thought
Istanbul is my best choice for staying
right after Russia maybe for one to
three months and what comes next I'm
gonna go to Southeast Asia most likely
and travel more countries around the
world I think during the next year maybe
a couple of years I will be not able to
come back to Russia safely so most
likely I'll just travel around the world
and make videos on this channel update
information on Russia and also doing
some travel and cultural videos about
countries that I'm visiting so I guess
new stage of My Life Begins here stay
tuned for more videos
thank you