what is happening in Russia these days
is something that we never had before in
our country and I'm not talking about
the mobilization we had that happening
for the second world war obviously what
I'm talking about is the amount of
people who rushed out of Russia after
the partial mobilization was announced
transportation is literally collapsed so
that's what we are going to talk today
how the Russian people escape Russia are
there any troubles caused by Russian
authorities for people who are escaping
right now and is it actually possible to
live ASAP and where exactly are Russian
people heading right now hi my name is
Nikki I live in Saint Petersburg City
and this year most of my videos on this
channel I start exactly this way hi my
name is Nikki I live in Saint Petersburg
City but recently I started to get a lot
of messages basically saying that I
should leave Russia and basically change
this simple way of introducing myself to
to you guys so someday this intro might
be shifted into like hi I'm Nikki I'm
staying at Kazakhstan but anyways today
we are not talking about my personal
case today we are talking about Russian
people in general and what's going on
out there just have a look a few of
these videos and then I explain
Ed so basically once mobilization was
announced thousands and thousands of
Russian people specifically Russian men
rushed out of my country right from the
first day and maybe even a day ago I
just didn't check that but right from
the first day I saw that prices for
flights are increasing in price
dramatically the price increase was not
just two times more was not like 50
percent more that was literally like
five six seven ten times sometimes even
20 times more expensive than we had in
normal times for example I'm staying in
St Petersburg City right now and before
I had flights from here to Istanbul a
very popular transportation hub for
Russians this year it's possible to go
there Visa free and without transfers
just direct flight from Saint Petersburg
from Moscow a normal ticket from
Istanbul would usually cost about 15 20
000 rubles and here is the price for
these tickets right now and please pay
attention that these tickets are
actually not for the today not for
tomorrow this one is like five six seven
days ahead and the rest of the tickets
are simply sold out of course Istanbul
is not the only destination where
Russian people can escape from the
country basically we can go to cities
and places like Istanbul directly to
Baku in Azerbaijan to various places in
Kazakhstan Belarus Tajikistan Uzbekistan
and maybe a few more it's literally all
sold out for the next couple of days and
it's not only hard to find an affordable
ticket it's literally hard to find any
ticket at all before the referendum
starts basically Eleanor and dioner and
perhaps one more region of a former
Ukraine are going to have some kind of
voting a referendum people will
basically decide if they want to be a
part of Russia and something tells me
that by the end of September 27th it
will be finally decided so once it will
happen that might be a totally different
situation for people inside Russia right
now the borders are opened and the
government doesn't not cause any
troubles to people who want to leave the
country but who knows what will happen
after September 27th I think that's why
a lot of people decided to rush out of
Russia so fast even compared to what we
had in February and March early this
year that time we also had a lot of
people escaping the country but still it
was possible to buy the same day ticket
or maybe next day ticket right now it's
not possible at all but flying of Russia
of course is not the only way of living
Russia it's just the fastest way there
are plenty of people who started to
drive in cars towards borders of
countries like Kazakhstan Georgia
Mongolia and Finland and these borders
are basically stocked and full of cars
and every single border that I just made
is literally full to overwhelmed by the
amount of Russians like have a look what
is happening near Kazakhstan border
foreign
I'm personally coming from the city of
Omsk which is close to Kazakhstan and I
once went to Kazakhstan by car with my
father that was a lovely trip and if I
were living in Omsk right now perhaps
that was one of possibilities for me to
go escape Russia taking a car right to
Kazakhstan this morning I read news
about four different checkpoints between
Russia and Kazakhstan occupied by cars
same thing happens on the border with
Georgia and here I actually can share
something by myself because I personally
crossed the border between Russia to
Georgia earlier in the summer I had a
two-week stay in Georgia that was lovely
so I had about 13 hour car ride covering
the distance of 250 kilometers between
the city of vladikovkas on the Russian
side and the capital of Georgia dibilisi
the reason why it took so long was
simply because the demand on living
Russian going to Georgia by cars that
time was so high there literally was a
long traffic jam on the way to the
checkpoint that was super beautiful
surrounded by mountains but by no means
that trip was quite hard especially for
my girlfriend as I remember that time we
started to experience the traffic jam
about seven eight kilometers before the
checkpoint itself and right now the
sedation is even more intense in the
morning of September 23rd there was a 15
kilometer traffic jam on the way to
checkpoint and the average time
estimated from like getting inside of
the traffic jam and crossing the border
was not 10 not 15 not even 20 hours but
the entire
36 hours that's crazy you see this is
somebody driving to Russia and all these
cars lined up on the lawn traffic jam to
border checkpoint people literally stuck
here for more than a day somebody even
decided to walk the road because it's
actually faster but they will face
another problem it is not possible to
cross the border without a vehicle so
they should find one they will look for
an available seat for somebody's car or
maybe they will buy a bike just across
the border and then through it at the
Georgian border oh yeah apparently is
this Russia Georgian checkpoint is super
popular for local people who want to
escape for people who live in Saint
Petersburg there's another popular
destination to escape is Finland
personally I cannot go there because I
do not have a Finnish Visa or Schengen
visa as well as majority of people here
but still there are a lot of people who
could actually go to Finland yes and
this morning I read about more than 4
000 Russians I'm not sure if that
Russian people or Russian cars by seeing
a Russian Finnish border and for
somebody who lives in Russian Far East
the only legit way to leave Russia by
land is going to Mongolia and obviously
there are also some traffic jams I'm
really curious to see the number of
people who left Russia during this
mobilization I think we will have some
data on that maybe in a few weeks maybe
in a month personally I don't have any
idea I don't have any solid gas on how
many people will actually leave but I
think that will be like thousands
thousands maybe hundreds of thousands
people Nick is the editor is here
there's some big updates on the things
that I've just shared to you about like
Russians leaving the country by the time
I recorded this talk I didn't know there
was like no information on that yet and
right now what we have is just theories
although it looks pretty pretty
realistic to be true in a couple of
weeks or maybe in the coming days so
what is happening since yesterday and
since today I started to read stuff
about possibilities that Russian
government will shut down the borders
for people who are qualifying to be
mobilized or maybe for a whole
population of Russia I don't think that
this new Iron Curtain might happen to
like the entire population of Russia but
for people who are qualifying to be
mobilized it's like yeah it might happen
for sure until this very time I'm
recording it on Monday September 26 uh
306 Moscow time there is still no
official information on is that through
a notice all theories although we have
Mr fiskov said like no no we are not
going to restrict our citizens from
leaving the country and it's up to every
single person to decide like whether you
believe him or not what I know for sure
right now in the middle of Monday people
are still living Russia and say Crossing
border normally so right now there is no
any restrictions like at this given hour
I actually found a telegram group named
border control in Russian and what's
that group does is basically sharing
stories of people who are crossing
Russian border at the moment they say
like this is a man of this age he
crossed the border at this place and it
was successful and from what I see right
now Russian border officers border
officials they do not ask any hard
questions and the only questions that
they ask almost every single individual
is when did you buy tickets that's a
very interesting question when did you
buy ticket so yeah right now I'm
gathering more info on this specific
issue and I'll record a single video
talking about this stuff and also about
recent protests happening across Russia
in a very unusual place that's what I'm
going to upload tomorrow maybe the day
after tomorrow so be sure to subscribe
to my channel and not miss that upload
coming back to the old Nikki so yeah
such a quick video I wanted to share
this with you today because I find this
thing this topic quite interesting go
comment about what will you like to see
next from Russia and Paka