I saw a very interesting meme in Russian
internet this morning that literally
said that Mr zelenski officially visited
Russia as the President of Ukraine for
the first time that's talking about his
recent visit to liberated her son what a
hilarious meme at such a sad time
actually hi my name is Nikki on this
channel I do plenty of video updates on
what's happening in Russia and I also do
a lot of Lifestyle videos from my trips
abroad in today's video we're gonna talk
about the recent events in Hearthstone
and also about how does Russian State
media portray this very events so you
can understand what kind of propaganda
does Russian government feeds to their
people I guess such kind of stuff can
explain a lot
[Music]
I actually made a video about that too
basically showing what Russian
government tells to people about this
annexation or these referendums calling
that historical events but anyways that
time the biggest narrated from Russia
was that they are coming to lose the
next regions forever they literally said
which means Russia forever
it was all around the places such big
words and many people in Russia wondered
why would they say this Russia forever
in those regions because surely
something might happen some things that
we observing right now basically that
Russia forever lasted for a bit more
than a month and then a few weeks ago
Russia started to move citizens of
hearthstone from one part of the city to
another basically across the river and
here somebody like Mikan thinks that
there is not a big deal to actually move
people from one side of the city across
the river to another side because the
city I'm coming from I was born in the
city of omsken Siberia has plenty of
people living on both sides of the river
so without looking at her zone map I
actually thought that all right they're
moving people from One City to another
because it's maybe better position but
these days after receiving a lot of news
from here soon I actually took my time
to look at the map of Here song like
more carefully with more attention and I
found out that the entire city is
located on one side of the river and the
second side of the river has almost
nothing so moving people from that very
habited and very Lively side of the city
across the river to basically place
where nobody lives is a very significant
thing a few days after the citizens of
hearthstone were moved across the river
Russian troops did the same thing
basically leaving the city of her son
just to see Ukrainian forces coming back
to her soul and basically liberating the
city while all people who left in that
side of the city basically cheering them
and being very happy to see such kind of
change
foreign
[Music]
Ukrainian troops entering the city
spread widely in Russian internet and
the reaction of people was like very
interesting basically I saw two big
opinions first of all I saw a lot of
people who live in Russia were very
happy to see that Russian army
disappeared from here Zone and Ukrainian
Army came back to that place people say
that they are very touched to see such a
reaction of local people from here Zone
who meet Ukrainian forces grind happily
and say a lot of thankful words to
Ukrainian troops
yes I am living in Russia but I'm
actually really glad that those people
are now finally liberated and second big
opinion that was often repeated in the
comments under like numerous videos and
text posts on Russian style Reddit so
that second opinion was basically
criticizing the decisions of Russian
government and I think such opinion
comes from people who actually support
the war or special military operations
is how they call it and right now as
many many times during last couple of
months they are not really satisfied
with the actions of our government so
yeah I might say that I start to see
much more opinions from Russian people
who are happy to see how Russian army
fails and also much more opinions from
the patrons who are not satisfied with
our government's actions I don't know
maybe it's just my informational and
social bubble you know the kind of news
I watch might be different from the kind
of news that most of people in Russia
watch I don't know but anyways even if
it really is my informational bubble
it's nice to see the progression of
Russian people opinion people start to
realize that this war is actually wrong
and shouldn't happen at all well let's
get to the main part of this video and
talk about what does Russian State media
tell us about your son and believe me
when something goes not according to the
plan Russian State media tried to avoid
talking about such kind of thing I
searched news related to her song on
Russia one channel apparently this is
the most watched channel in Russia right
now here is the newsline I found first
on November the 9th our Minister of
Defense Mr sheiku ordered to regroup
troops from hereson City two days later
they reported that all Russian troops
and 115 000 of hearthstone citizens left
the city three days after that all of a
sudden they started reporting on how
cruel Ukraine is in her Zone and then
shifted to talking about how good Russia
the people and even animals of her son I
didn't miss a single news report here
that's literally what Russia one had to
share about her song Started from
November the 9th now let's see beat of
the news program just to get the taste
of Russian news
[Music]
this morning all Russian people of the
Harrison region were completely
transferred to the Left Bank of Nipper
River no casualties among personal and
Equipment our military helped everyone
who wanted to evacuate until the very
last moment
residents of Noah were also recommended
to leave the city and they accepted it
with understanding
foreign
lives of soldiers and also the
equivalent of Russian army by relocating
them from one side of her son basically
across the river which is actually
racial and logical decision although
really difficult decision if talking
about reputational damages you might
remember what happened in Limon a few
months ago and that time Russian Society
including our government kind of divided
into two different opinions basically
some people supported that Russian
troops left Limon and yet a lot of
people were really angry about that
including these two guys who got like
really big political weight during this
year I expected that this time khadir
and pregosian they will disagree and
dislike the decision of a Russian
government to regroup Russian troops
once again although they fully supported
this decision and other things that I
find like really really interesting
talking about this events that we
actually don't have many news talking
about her son recently there are some
news about her song coming from November
the 9th and then the next piece of news
coming about her zone is November 13th
somehow there were no words talking
about Ukrainian forces taking back that
side of her son city of course I'm
talking about one specific TV channel
one specific state news report but
anyways I think this shows a good
example of this at the same time besides
official state news we also have a lot
of propaganda channels in Russia and
they are talking a lot of BS about all
recent events and here I want to
specifically mention one guy who works
for enteve that is another
government-run TV channel his name is
Anton norkin and what he says in his TV
program is kinda hilarious but also
illustrates the reality of Russian
censorship like very well yesterday yeah
if I support this decision and say that
the ministry of defense is doing the
right thing by leaving here soon then it
turns out such words are public calls
for violating the territorial Integrity
of the Russian Federation in our
criminal code this is article 280 part 1
and I specifically checked this morning
that several years of imprisonment
if I do not support this decision and
believe that the ministry of defense did
the wrong thing by leaving her son these
are public actions aimed at discrediting
our Armed Forces same article 280 but
part three the duration of imprisonment
is approximately the same I don't want
to go to jail so that guy said that he
cannot show any opinion on this topic
and of course that is kinda a joke but
anyways that illustrates the situation
like pretty nicely well the main reason
I'm making this series is just to
illustrate the power of propaganda
because believe me there are millions
and millions people who live in Russia
and watch only these state news reports
and they believe that is the only
possible truth
they hear that Ukraine is bad and Russia
is good and that Russia is making a
smart move by regrouping the troops just
before making another smart move that's
all what people hear on Russian TV and
maybe some days in public opinion might
be changed although I wouldn't count on
it future before saying goodbye I want
to say a few words about one of my
newest projects a Russian club for
people who would like to study or
improve Russian language I hosted the
Russian speaking club for my followers
completely for free since 2020 but this
year I decided to dedicate more time and
energy into this tiny project and I made
it a paid Community for you so if
there's any of you guys interested in
studying and practicing Russian language
just check out the link I put in the
description to this video thank you so
much spasiba and Paka