think
I think real life are we live or not
hello guys welcome
from Saint Petersburg Russia I hope it's
all right and you can hear and see me
let me actually check my camera
gonna get started just in a few minutes
okay I think I'm I'm here and you can
hear me
so guys hello and welcome from Saint
Petersburg Russia the theme of this live
video is a little bit weird maybe but uh
I have a bigger idea behind this
so a few days ago I thought it would be
interesting to compare not only the
styles that I see at local shopping
malls or local supermarkets but also or
there's a stuff that I usually order for
myself online
and compares the prices like a month ago
and now but the bigger picture is not
just to see if anything got like 10
Ruble more expensive or Remains the Same
or got like 50 more expensive the bigger
picture is actually to talk about the
effect of sanctions for regular people
like I am like my friends like people
around me like my parents like my mom
and also to explain one thing how
Russian people ordinary Russian people
think and feel towards the sanctions
from the West I think that's a really
important thing to talk about and to
understand but now let's see if you
actually can hear me or not guys hello
and please text to the chat if you can
hear me well if you can see me well and
tell me where you're coming from
think I think you can see me all right
I see somebody says howdy from Texas so
we can hear and see hi from Germany
hello from San Francisco yes David the
moderator says can hear and see great
perfect guys by the way a little update
since the last live I have two
moderators who will help me to keep the
chat cleaner from spammers and trolls
because apparently there were some I
want to have the live chat a clean place
where I can have a look to see what
people
say what people think to see your
opinions and also to see your questions
if you have any to answer to
yeah today I'm kind of streaming alone
no Lisa around me but she's going to
come back soon and actually I asked her
to order some groceries that we get used
to buy before exactly same like we
bought like one month ago and I know he
is the exact prices for that and we'll
see the exact prices from today and then
we'll talk like uh what does it mean to
an ordinary Russian person to have these
prices rise up and what do basically
people in Russia feel and think about it
yay uh hi from Canada hello from
nagaland India
please have a look on this video and
comments yay here we go uh Willington
here hi from Oklahoma Vermont USA
Philippines that's a lot of different
places
wonderful well before Lisa comes back
with all the products let's actually
have a chat and I'll have a look at the
live chat and see if you have any
questions related like guys please pick
some questions about you can ask about
the sanctions effect or you can ask
about the prices go up in Russia I think
that's a very important thing to talk
about I realize there are some bad
things happening in Ukraine there are
people literally suffering there but I
stay here in Saint Petersburg and what I
see around me is something that I
confidently talk about so that's why I
keep making videos like this so you can
take you can receive news from out there
in different sources and I am your
source of information of what's going on
around me physically in Saint Petersburg
I see uh Jonathan Stromberg asking price
of sugar
price of sugar so uh people are kinda
panicking a little bit maybe even
panicking a lot in Russia especially the
older generation uh people who
experienced more troubles in their
lifetime and sure there are people who
get sugar uh who buy sugar as crazy and
it's actually getting more expensive I
think uh Lisa will order a pack of sugar
just to see how much more expensive it
is but the general Trend I see is
disappearing from Russian shelves of
supermarkets and is getting more
expensive than before although I don't
think we will have a trouble of getting
sugar or any other kind of stuff uh in
the future perhaps the imported stuff
the imported stuff will be not really
available here or will be available but
it will cost much more money than before
but it won't be a situation like let's
say in 90s or even before 90s like I'm
not that old I'm not old enough to
actually remember what was happening
let's say in 90 91 92 but from what my
friends and from what my parents told me
there was a situation when Russia had a
lot of products imported products from
other countries but people could not
afford it because it was simply too
expensive hopefully
um like we will not face suchitation
nowadays but I consider it might be
possible
here Indonesia we import wheat from both
Ukraine and Russia and the wheat prices
have doubled I also have heard that
about sunflower seeds sunflower seed
oils that is both important from import
importing from Ukraine and Russia
somehow you guys will have perhaps
prices raising Horizon for these kind of
products too as well as we in Russia
yay I want to
have this cup of tea with you guys
cheers from Russia and it's like just
bear with me bear together because I'm
really sad I'm really disappointed to
see all this stuff happening around and
to be inside like to be in my own
country that started it basically
started this crazy crazy scene
I see somebody I see Victor I guess from
Australia sending a super thanks super
thank you Victor that is the first one
during this live during today and I see
your question other paper and napkin
shortages yet
I don't think so there are no um
shortages for napkins talking about
paper no shortages yet but the price for
ordinary paper goes crazy before it was
possible to buy a 500 pack of
um paper paper sheets for about 300
rubles now the price tripled and
sometimes even got four or five times
more expensive I have no idea why it's
happening exactly because we have a lot
of trees and paper production in Russia
I guess but it's getting more expensive
although um some of my friends and Lisa
told me that uh price for uh female
hygiene or how do you say hygiene how do
you say that word something to help your
body to stay clean so uh stuff about uh
not napkins but
oh guys I don't know how to say that
kind of stuff in English whatever that
kind of products for girls it it also
got more expensive recently and actually
there was time when uh Lisa went to a
supermarket to see just empty shelves
for something that she wanted to buy
which is like it's just inconvenience
it's like minor problem but we have we
are starting to have a lot of minor
problems like that which is from one
side it's bad from Another Side it's
good because you realize right uh when
every day when ordinary people uh
getting affected by such kind of things
they start to think what is going on why
do we have it with our lives
by the way there's a Twiggy Shayla
London sending a super sticker thank you
thank you so much Shayla it's
I appreciate
drinking shifier uh that it's not
chiffier but it is that some kind of tea
just
tea
sanitary napkins is the word for female
product hygiene trombone thank you yes
my English is not my first language so
it's sometimes hard to remember certain
words but it's all right
more sanctions so what about buckwheat
so the buckwheat the rice and some other
kind of grains are actually getting a
bit more expensive than before and once
again the general outcome is that
Russian people are getting more poor and
more people will of course ask what is
going on out there and why it's
happening like this but imagine guys
it's like we have a bit different uh
culture background here and we have a
bit different
um understanding of what's going on like
especially people who only watch TV
especially people in remote towns and
cities and small villages they take
sanctions they take hardships of daily
life a little bit differently that you
might expect and they rather not think
it's the fault of our government they
might think it's the fault of the outer
World which is like a weird thing to
think but people do it's something that
I actually want to cover and explain in
the future videos it's a really huge
thing to talk
awesome boy
sending super thanks for a few
Singaporean dollars thank you so much
awesome boy thank you and Jenny for love
does the same as two dollars that's
actually a lot in Russia now like a few
days ago I bought
a cup of coffee for like 50 cents or two
dollars it's a lot thank you
I see a question from Chris Chris
cornetta thank you for your super thanks
do you think your president will be
impeached impeached uh I guess it's
about impeachment I don't think so like
uh honestly I'm not that much into
politics I don't understand many
political things but uh I don't think it
will happen
Jamie L thank you so much Jamie five
bucks super super sticker I appreciate
really much your support
does Russia produce tea yes but actually
most of the teas that we have in Russia
is that I buy to myself is important
important imported it's imported
yeah
uh what will happen if
10 of all Russians will start protesting
I don't think it will happen because
like protests in Russia they go not like
protests somewhere else in other
countries let's say in Europe and many
people just get uh detained and get
really serious problems with their life
so it's like I see a popular opinion um
from westerners from people uh from
Outsiders of Russia
um from foreigners that like why don't
Russian people go protest but the answer
to that is
simply many people afraid to do that
afraid to lose their income to support
their family afraid to face consequences
of getting into like jail and having the
trouble with police
and me from staying inside of the
country I actually understand them I and
I don't blame them for that
talking back about the prices about the
stuff that I uh wanted to order today I
heard Lisa just came back home and Liz
Brazil
I just asked her if she ordered the
stuff that I asked her to order because
my phone is no longer able to pay for
that because of MasterCard it was
connected to my Apple pay now I can no
longer use Apple pay for paints that I
need to use my card directly but
apparently I had no time because of life
I didn't expect this to happen
so this is ordering uh some products
some groceries and you guys will see how
quick it will be delivered and then
we'll see how more expensive it actually
is
yeah I have a huge support from Dolly
Lamas T it's 50 American dollars and
believe me that is a lot in Russia
that's really huge thank you so much
Dolly thank you she says
thank you for being here with us please
know the world isn't against your people
much luck from Texas thank you so much
for this message like the reason why I
make these Lives why why I made these
videos is first to share my opinion to
share what's going on around me
to keep the bridge between people
because I feel a huge misunderstanding
between people out of Russia and people
in Russia and I see this
misunderstanding actually growing every
single day from the beginning of March I
think I changed my opinion about what
Russians think about sanctions and about
people abroad and what people abroad
think about Russians so it's like I'd
really like to continue making such
videos and to share what is life like
here just to have this kind of
connection this kind of bridge between
people it's important for me and I'm
really happy to see that it's also
important for you I see I see I see huge
support from you guys
I see a lot of questions uh in the chat
some of them related to like very
political stuff that I'm not able to
answer I'm sorry guys stayed in Russia I
cannot answer I cannot share every
single things that I have in my head
sadly we have such kind of censorship
but I did see your questions I'll pick
some
uh today I'll mostly talk about the
prices about how it rises and how it
influences just ordinary Russian people
and I see somebody asking how about the
rent does rent prices go up or not and
imagine if you live in a country uh
where you like basically stay at your
home country you have a certain level of
income every single month and you plan
ahead and you spend a certain level of
income for your rent renting an
apartment
your income is not going to rise it's
not going to be uh bigger but one day
something happens like Russia goes to
Ukraine and everything is getting more
expensive including rent like some of my
friends have their rent to be like more
expensive than before and they basically
have really hardship to support their
daily life as before
somebody the rent didn't change so it's
more about
landlords it's more about people who
um operate with you like some people
decide to rise to make it more expensive
to rent their places some people decide
to hold and to freeze uh the price so it
depends a few of my friends got their
rent uh to be like really expensive
personally myself I rent a place I paid
um
same amount of money this month and I
paid the same amount of money last month
so technically for me
as a person who receives the most income
in foreign currency in American dollars
for me it became cheaper but
for majority of people it's not not like
that
I see a super thanks from Jeanette five
bucks thank you so much Jeanette thank
you it's it's a lot in Russia right now
stay safe thank you thank you
another thing to clarify
I see somebody asked are you aware of
the destruction going on in Ukraine Marx
Sears Mark shirts I don't know how to
read your last name I'm sorry but yes I
am aware of it at least I think that I
am aware of it I I have access to
um boss points of views I have access to
news I have access to news accounts on
Instagram and their websites
the thing is not everyone in Russia is
actually able to see what's going on and
it's not because they don't have access
it's because people uh like don't really
care much to put more effort into
digging the stuff digging uh to look the
news
um like let's say somebody who lives in
a tiny remote town or in a village they
watch TV every single day and the only
point of view they have is believe me
very different from what you see in your
country like very different and when
people have such kind of
stuff around them like only TV or only
people who watch TV around them they
even don't ask themselves what is really
going on there and when they see the
destruction they think a different thing
rather than you guys think it's it's sad
thing to realize but I realize it
Kevin Savage said in super sticker for
45 British pounds that's really a lot
thank you Kevin thank you for your
support I really appreciate it same to
you for 20 euros that's a lot sending
this money and saying nothing it makes
me think like who you are guys like you
you really can afford it appreciate a
lot thank you so much
yo I think TV and Russian websites are
so fluted with lies that people give up
stop caring tune out uh say it by Laura
KIRO perhaps yes it's not only from the
Russian side it's also like basically TV
around the world have a higher level of
propaganda they share basically a
one-sided point of view
perhaps more in Russia perhaps more here
I don't have access I don't watch
foreign TV so I cannot judge about that
but I can judge about Russians
Victor sent in five Australian dollars
as a super thanks saying smash the like
button for the algorithm thank you guys
thank you Victor please go smash the
like button so I can share my opinion I
can share what I think to more people
and somehow I hope it is valuable for
you thank you
in this life yes Tommy it's live I'm
staying here my hands are here my cup of
tea is here and I'm just talking about
stuff that I'm worrying about and
chatting to you in the live chat
interesting question
interesting question oh where is that
does the majority of Russian people grow
their own pro products produce from
Amaya so in a situation if we face like
uh
if everything will will get super
expensive like 30 years ago during the
90s yes many people will rely on food
they grow like we were like 30 years ago
like potato in the stuff uh it's
something that is easy to grow in Russia
and believe me many people actually have
access to that of course not every
single person especially people who live
in cities but people who live in small
towns and in villages they have either
their own places to grow stuff or they
have Duchess which is a remote uh remote
piece of land for such kind of
activities
who is censoring this in the chat so uh
geeking zenis or how do you read your
nickname hi guys uh I have two
moderators to actually help me to keep
the chat cleaner and the basic rule the
Only Rule the only thing that I asked my
moderators to do use your common sense
to avoid having any spammers and any
trolls so in my opinion having any kind
of opinion is all right but being spammy
or being or saying hate speech is not
all right so I just ask a few people to
help me with that
to keep the chat clean
somebody with a nickname da which means
yes in Russian just sent 50 euros as
super thanks I appreciate that's a lot
that's a lot really thank you so much
like I think YouTube is the only source
of Revenue uh I have recently like all
the other sources not kind of blog but
it's more complicated to receive them so
super thank you for this 50 euros is a
lot
Johnny M says good job Nikki and send in
another super super thanks appreciate
mate I appreciate drummies that's a lot
thank you thank you
the information you give is very
important cabrinicopia thank you so much
Cabrini I really appreciate like I
understand like the things that I talk
about is more about the minor things
cannot be compared to big troubles
people have around the world but I also
feel it's important to document this
theme and to share it with people so I
continue doing it
interesting question from M must will
you miss what will you miss the most
from the sanctions
so personally I will not miss like
nothing the most after sanctions
um personally I'm not really attached to
anything to any kind of company or
product that left Russia or any kind of
stuff that
um
kind of been in Russian users it's all
right like the general effect is huge
but something particular I'm not missing
it but if you think not only about a
company not about a product but the
general the bigger idea behind all these
sanctions I will miss the feeling of
unity with people like two years ago
three years ago before covet I enjoyed
to travel a lot I enjoyed to get in
touch with people around the world
basically to learn new cultures and to
share my own culture to people and now
it's really hard to keep doing it it's
really hard to travel it's really hard
to be as positive and as optimistic and
as open to people as before I will miss
this
and sanctions is a part of things that
make it um complicated
but I realized the main reason behind it
yeah it's not just sanctions
so
yeah
I see Dolly Lama sending another Super
thanks for a hundred dollars wait I
don't know who you are but thank you so
much thank you for your support I wish I
could sponsor you into the USA you will
have so much fun I love to travel and I
love seeing what the world is really
like
lastly did YouTube pay you so guys uh I
think many of you ask uh or have a
question like Nikki why don't you leave
Russia why don't you go to the EU or why
don't you go to the states or somewhere
else
the first I don't really want to go uh
to move to States or to Europe to travel
yes surely 100 I will be happy to go to
Europe or to go to states to travel and
to explore but I don't want to relocate
there for my entire life
I have another place that I will that I
want to leave it's not Russia but it's
another place
and why I'm not leaving right now is
mostly because
I can't I can go myself alone but I
don't want to live alone right now ASAP
so I'll I'll wait till the moment when I
have to go or where I am able to go with
somebody I plan to go like basically
with Lisa yeah lastly did you pay you
um I'm expecting you to pay me very soon
in a few days and uh my friends my
YouTuber friends say that it's all right
they received YouTube payments as before
um on Russian banks that is not under
sanctions so I'm positive about that
come to Thailand somebody who said come
to Thailand it's very close to the place
that I want to go abroad
yeah don't go to China I'm actually a
huge fan of China like I like China I
lived there for many years and not
talking anything about politics just
talking about the culture and people who
I met there China was amazing Thailand
was amazing and I love Asia
questions from Stuart have you watched
the Arnold Schwarzenegger video yes I
watched it I shared to my friends and I
found that Arnold Schwarzenegger had a
very interesting very nice speech that
he actually prepared to Russians he he
put some effort into thinking what he
wants to say
he did good about that
Ben Peter Ben Peterson sending super
thanks 15 thank you so much Ben and
saying that I understand you're in EX in
an extremely difficult position I hope
this helps I hope you and your family
will remain safe and if you have any
family in Ukraine I hope they are safe
as well by the way you hear the sound
that's our groceries I'm going to talk
about that and show you what we ordered
and how much it is now so thank you so
much ben I don't have family members in
Ukraine but I do have friends and
basically all my friends they are not in
Ukraine already they they just somewhere
else
yeah that's hard topic to talk about
um Frey height a DOT Freight send in 10
euros asking can you buy medicines
without a prescription now in the USA in
the use of medication for depression oh
that's hard for me to read but thank you
so much for the for the tip thank you I
appreciate and yes I can buy medicines
without uh prescriptions normally as
before some medicines should have a
prescription more like like serious
medication but for the stuff that we
didn't need prescription from a doctor
we still can buy it I have heard that
some medicine is missing some medicine
is getting more expensive so in the
future in a long run it might be a
trouble personally I don't get any
medications for myself so I don't know
for sure but I just have heard this
stuff from my friends and from the news
Laura V sending 30 bucks as a super
thanks thank you so much Laura and she
says much love to brave people like you
honestly I don't feel myself a brave
person but appreciate really really
appreciate your support and your nice
words
so um interesting question very good
very relevant to our today's topic from
jerem devira can inflation increase PRI
can inflation increase price for food
drinks and other things and grocery
every week yes it's happening right now
it's not only about the inflation itself
it's also about the effect of sanctions
every single week when I go to buy
something let's say groceries for my
week or if I need to get something else
any kind of services it might be more
expensive
um I I have seen that uh really daily
life things getting a different price
every single week basically more and
more expensive while the income of
Ordinary People stays the same
another thing that I noticed about about
services
people who provide services they
actually didn't raise their prices a lot
but uh they kind of say we have freezing
the prices now
gotta take the products please yeah I
gotta take the products I'll wait for
you guys
foreign
guys the products are here all the
groceries and soon I'm going to show you
and tell if anything is more expensive
or not so talking about the services
many companies many people actually say
it we are going to freeze the price for
some time until the moment when we can't
keep up with that so there is some kind
of unity between companies and people as
well so there are good sides and bad
sides after sanctions apparently
apparently PSB at your door that was not
a fizzby but a delivery guy
for my just a weekly groceries
I see um super thanks Super T from e i n
b thank you so much 10 pounds that's a
lot she says uh or he says trying to
phrase this so that you will be able to
answer it comfortably
but is there General disinterest in
politics with the Russian people a
symptom or a cause for the way things
are in Russia so that's a very
interesting question that I'm not really
able to answer not because of any
political reasons but because of my
knowledge like my general knowledge
about politics is not that good I just I
I just say that it's really not that
good but my opinion about this is that
many people in Russia are not into
politics including myself personally
that for a long period of time we were
told that we can't change anything
whatever we do there won't be any
difference and politics is very like
very uh gray very black thing that we
cannot like cannot even comprehend
cannot make a difference so we were
being told that for quite a long time
I think so and therefore many people are
taking no interest about that
it's just my opinion I don't know how
true it is or not
Elliot W sending 30 bucks it's a lot
thank you Elliot thank you I really
appreciate he says hello from Brooklyn
keep making incredible content keep
making keep making a credible quote and
thank you I'm trying to do that I'm
trying to do that to keep up with making
videos to show what's going on around
and I think you guys see a shift of my
con content from showing just the food I
cook just my daily life to observing
what is going on around me also as a
part of my daily life but
with more observations and more thoughts
put into it
yes
so uh here is the main theme that I had
as an idea for today's video uh in
Russia we have a quite nice delivery
services of products and this is
something that many friends of mine use
and it's exactly the stuff that I bought
a week oh sorry a month ago and I know
for sure what if the price was like one
month ago and right now so we can
compare if anything changed and I think
it's very uh like simple experiment a
very simple comparison just to show you
how quick we have prices rising
um compared to before so let's actually
have a look what kind of stuff we have
and dive a little bit into less serious
thin rather than talking politics or uh
serious questions into I mean seeing
what is like Russian products are
how expensive it is now and what do
basically Russian people think about it
yeah so uh first of things
first thing that I love a lot and that I
bought today and a month ago is such
kind of honey we use it a lot like Lisa
loves honey so much and we basically buy
it every single like two weeks or maybe
every single three weeks the price for
this exactly
um how do you say bottle of Honey a can
of honey it was like uh 15 less than I'm
paying for that now I actually have to
have a piece of paper over here stage
and how much everything is
but apparently they didn't put it I have
all this stuff in application I can
check the price in the app but
apparently this thing
um 15 more expensive than before like
same note you have to notice you have I
have to mention one thing like it's
getting more expensive but income of
Ordinary People is getting like less and
less or staying on the same uh level but
not Rising
yeah I said mod yes this one is honey
mud and it's like once again 15 more
expensive Liz can I have your phone for
like real quick I want to check the exit
prices that we paid now so I can give
you more exact numbers talking about
like it's more expensive or it stays the
same
so this one is Lisa's phone I have
um the access to all prices
okay here we go so next thing perhaps
you don't know what is that exactly and
that is uh something that we call area
and if you never heard about reaction
cup then you don't really understand
Russian so let me explain a bit it's
like fermented milk or fermented sour
cream that is actually
um reminds me caramel or something like
that and Russian people love it a month
ago I paid 78 rubles for that today it
costs 78 rubles so apparently that stays
the same so you see such a such a weird
difference the same store
like products are same but this one is
more expensive right now this one is
like staying the same
tell me if any of you like know what
reaction is
oh Lisa is there hi Lisa I think I'll
have Lisa by the end of the live stream
um because she delivered she basically
ordered the stuff that I'm showing to
you and maybe if she wants to say hi
I see super thanks from Nathan McGovern
20 bucks thank you so much Nathan thank
you I hope this will help you to
continue to do this we need this
perspective so we will not get otherwise
thank you thank you Nathan it helps it
helps a lot great cat Emoji thank you
too well uh next thing that we got here
is just a piece of bread it's nothing uh
really special it's really ordinary
piece of bread it costs 91 rubles which
is a little bit less than one dollar and
it stays the same so basically the
second product that is uh costing the
same price as one month before no more
expensive no cheaper and other things
that I like very much actually gonna
open it it's like not milk say near
Malako not milk and this actually got 20
percent more expensive or like 18 more
expensive
cheers guys
by the way
um like for me it's super interesting to
share such kind of stuff for you about
the prices about the products that I
receive that I have in my daily life and
the difference now and then but what
about you like is it interesting for you
to see me doing this thing or it's
rather more interesting to
um have another kind of life where I
talk about like different kind of stuff
more related to like I don't know more
related to what people think or what's
going on in the streets maybe live from
the streets
I actually will do a poll about that and
is that and I'll I'll have a poll for
you and I'll see what you guys um what's
the majority of things is that
interesting for you yes no okay ask my
community thank you guys for your
opinion because like I would like to
talk about the stuff that it is
interesting for me but also that is
interesting for you
the next thing the next product is
something that Lisa likes very much like
it's baby food we don't have a baby not
going to have baby any soon inside no
way but
she loves such kind of fun as such kind
of thing and last time it was oh can you
unblock it last time it was like 49
rubles for one little piece of it right
now that's 59 rubles so basically
uh so basically it's 20 more expensive
right exactly 20 more expensive for baby
food so imagine if a family just
ordinary Russian family has to buy
everything every single day something
like that it will be like 20 more
expensive for them to spend for baby
food and it's talking only about this
particular thing something might be even
more expensive I guess because baby
stuff is very specialized
Daniel McKenzie sending five dollars
thank you so much so much what does
Aruba look like and where you get your
glasses I love them so the glasses come
from my Chinese friend from my friend I
met in China and Russian rubles I I'm
going to show you a little bit later I
think it is interesting to to show
well I see the result of the
um
Paul is it interesting for you and 93
say yes that's actually more than 400
people voted for that so thank you so
much for your opinion now I feel much
better at sharing the stuff that I am
sharing you right now yeah
Nikki I hope you share your wealth with
others Jamie um it's like I'm not a
really wealthy person but if one day I
can receive all the funds I'm getting
from
um all my online stuff uh yeah first I'm
sharing it with my family and I'm a
habit I will be happy to share it with
my family and maybe one day I'll be I'll
go bigger than that right now honestly
like no um no hiding right now I support
only myself sometimes Lisa sometimes
um and maybe in the future my family but
one day I want to go bigger than that
so uh next thing over here is just kind
of yogurt like Russia is really
Russia is a place where people like
dairy products a lot and such kind of
yogurts is something that I used to have
um really often and it's also 20 more
expensive than typical
yeah 20 more expensive than one month
ago
Thank you Lisa
groceries in the USA are going up as
well you guys are not alone actually I
would like to hear about that a bit more
I have heard that guests around the
world is going to be more expensive is
more expensive right now but how about
the groceries in your country
yeah I guess even if uh in your country
um
even if in your country you have
groceries go up perhaps in Russia it's
going up even faster obviously because
of the sanctions
Kumi sending 20 bucks saying thanks for
the videos hope this helps thank you so
much Kumi thank you that's that that
helps for sure thank you so much
people are buying up sunflower oil and
flour because maybe because you heard
that Russia and Ukraine were importing a
lot of this stuff
groceries and gas boss up between 20 uh
15 and 20 percent there in the US that's
a lot I actually checked how much are
the gas prices in Russia and like
Gathering 92.95 it cost about 50 rubles
which is half American dollars for one
liter not not a gallon for one liter
yeah let me take down the pole and pull
oh well perfect and I want to say hi
again to 1500 of people crazy so many
people
are open to hear what I have to say
thank you so much guys for being here
it's important for me to have an
opportunity to speak even about such
minor things like we are speaking today
well another thing that we are having
that I have to show
to you is
this kind of cheese and it's like um
let me count this kind of cheese just
grated Parmesan cheese is costing two
dollars right now and it's 15 or even 20
percent more expensive so I think here
we can see the general Trend some
products like
or is that like some products like this
um and like this they didn't change the
price compared to before like the bread
and the reaction cup but much more
products like this kind of not milk this
kind of honey this kind of baby food and
this kind of yogurt they got 15 20 more
expensive compared to one month ago we
actually have in the last uh product
here is such kind of cream 33 35 cream
really heavy and they are also a little
bit more expensive than before for about
10-15 percent
which is different there are some
products I've personally seen in
supermarkets that are more expensive
than like 50 comparison before
technology and Cars getting even more
expensive it's hitting us a lot less
here you go
thank you
that was last sip of tea
and let's see what does the chat say
what does the chat say by the way you
have uh you see a few people like love
Taro having a blue moderators nickname
that somebody who's helping me to uh
keep the chat cleaner than we had last
time thank you so much for my moderators
really you're helping me out a lot
gas prices are ridiculous right now
yes yes it runs the world yes in Russia
it actually stays the same which is like
obvious I guess
um cars it speeds that's exactly Raman
Raman Dorman cars is a word in Russia we
use in situations when something
terrible or unpredictable or really bad
or really scary whatever uh kind of bad
happens yes Roman I feel you Rahman
you're right
Illyria to Euro Steve from Germany thank
you so much Illyria hello from Germany
hello from Saint Petersburg
I'm happy to say this voice hello from
Saint Petersburg I like this place
unfortunately the general Vibe here is
not that good
arena thirdiman there are there is a lot
of change in
um food names due to politics
in Brighton Beach we have Russian places
changing names is there a similar thing
in Russia thank you for your tip thank
you for super thanks Rina helps a lot
thank you Susan for for your story of
thanks I really appreciate it and very
interesting question from Rina by the
way in Brighton Beach in America there
are some Russian stores that change
their names because because they face
kind of discrimination and hate from
people and it's something that I don't
understand at all
okay I can understand the sanctions like
okay there are sanctions towards Russian
people in Russia yes I get it like I
really understand the reason behind it
now
I understand why companies leave Russian
Market okay uh yesterday I had a talk
with a few people who explained me a
bigger um like reason for that I
understand that but why would people
create or be judgmental to businesses
out of Russia for just having Russian
names let's say like on Brighton Beach I
also heard that in Europe there were
some restaurants having Russian names or
something like that and now they have
problems with local people basically
because of their name like I have heard
a story about a man who was living I
believe in Latvia was it Latvia it was
in Eastern European country he was
living there for about 30 years
he was having a cafe
um with Russian food or something like
that
and somehow he got troubles with locals
just because he was doing that I don't
understand this kind of discrimination I
don't understand this kind of hate stuff
from people to someone who has any
relation to Russians like that's that's
a nonsense to me and I don't think I
would understand that
if you have your reasons you can explain
but I don't think I'll actually
understand that
famous Russian restaurant in New York
getting a lot of hate so horrible
Linda Pele
it's owned by ukrainians uh don't get it
like
it's such a situation right a Russian
restaurant in New York that is owned by
Ukrainian people still getting hit like
this kind of hate culture or canceled
culture is something that is really
hardly understandable from for me like
let's say if there will be somebody
let's say if there will be a country
that somehow started in really bad thing
or let's say talk about covet like covet
came from China right uh I have heard
that uh people were like having such
kind of discrimination towards Asian
people during the beginning of covet and
I don't understand why will people do
that why would they hate or discriminate
normal people who are just having Asian
appearance or a cabin from China that
something unandestendable then and also
un understandable for me now like
yeah this
camera says that's why we need unique to
show them all people to show that all
people are capable of caring for others
I think so like I'm happy to be such
kind of bridge between people just to
show what kind of like what Russian
people are
basically showing myself here and share
the Beats of Lisa she's like not often
uh comes into my videos but sometimes
she does so you can see her and perhaps
some of my friends and basically people
that I show you
um in my vlogs
I really hope you like see and
understand Russia a little bit more
after watching my content
hate is what got this world in the mess
perhaps like
um
yeah so guys today I oh
that's a little bit hard to say so guys
today I tried to show you the difference
between some products some groceries
that I bought a month ago
and right now and we saw that some stuff
is about the same so some stuff is about
15 20 more expensive and it was such
kind of little experiment little thing
to talk about and also little excuse to
go live and to have a conversation with
you guys
I'm going to stay for July for about 10
more minutes so keep it under one hour
and then finish the video and then we'll
go to another life on Saturday more
likely with Lisa at least she said she's
going to be here during the next live on
Saturday about the same time
Philip V says I mean it's understandable
to some degree people just want to take
a Firm Stance against Russian politics
and there's some collateral damage as
per usual there is definitely collateral
damage let's say about sanctions
affecting Ordinary People yes I take
that I understand that but I don't take
it talking about Russian people who live
abroad you guys have no reason you have
no excuse to somehow discriminate people
who have uh like only one connection to
Russian culture that have they maybe
they have rather like Russian parents
maybe they have Russian family name or
first name and I have heard that even
this is enough for being somehow
discriminated now like not often
hopefully not often but sometimes
um so I want to deliver idea like
uh there shouldn't be such collateral
damage
that's ridiculous for me to see it
I see the chat now I also see the super
thanks from Daniel McKinsey I welcome
you to my YouTube channel Daniel
McKinsey well uh Daniel thank you for
super thanks
I maybe check it out yeah uh are you
lgbtq not really like I don't really
care about my sexuality a lot
um super thanks from Chuck Lambert 20
bucks thank you so much thank you Chuck
for your support thank you
I see a lot of questions that is somehow
unrelated to the things we are talking
today although I I would really like to
answer it but perhaps next time also
guys please understand I cannot talk
much uh political stuff simply because
I'm staying physically in Russia and
today we are introduced a new law which
basically uh says that we cannot share
fake news about many more things not
only about things happen in Ukraine but
also some other stuff happening inside
Russia so every single day we have a bit
less freedom to speak
pick up it's it's bad Philippe Rodriguez
sending five bucks a super sticker thank
you so much Philippe thank you thank you
same to Jocelyn 20 Canadian dollars
thank you thank you Jocelyn greetings
from Russia
you mean you mean fake news yes you guys
might hear about fake news low we have
another fake news low coming yesterday
um saying a few more things I think I'll
share that in my Instagram uh in a while
awesome boy thank you so much and a fox
in space 30 bucks I hope this gets
better for you and yours thanks for
keeping everyone updated stay safe thank
you so much at Fox in space
I really wish that the world comes back
to peace
soon hopefully one day because
um you might see me being positive and
optimistic and optimistic about the
future but what I see around me is
actually not that happy and like every
single day I
um somehow think like will it ever stop
or not
well well
um sorry I haven't lost five minutes and
guys for the last five minutes I see
1300 people watching me right now I want
to thank to say thank you so much for
being with me your support your presence
online makes me able to somehow stay
motivated somehow have a high spirit and
look optimistically into the future and
I'll keep you updated I will keep making
videos and actually I'm working on a
longer video right now so
with an idea to
deliver you an understanding of Russian
people a little bit better like
hopefully you can watch my content and
understand us a little bit better
yeah
Maki pupu ascending five uh boxes super
stickers thank you thank you so much
Daniel McKinsey thank you my friend I
hope it will entertain you some thank
you two bucks is enough for having a
couple uh cups of coffee so appreciate
ready
a question from Sean stoneness can you
get the money that people send yes on
YouTube here I can receive it from
YouTube directly
um YouTube still is able to pay uh money
to Russians to Russian YouTubers
um that have their Banks not under
sanctions hopefully uh my bank is not
under sanction
Rhys gray 10 Canadian dollars hello from
Canada Mr Nikki people have a lot of
anger and unfortunately some of it is
getting directed at the wrong people
it's very unfortunate hoping for some
kind of Peace soon exactly Mr Gray thank
you so much and that's what I was
talking about the businesses in Brighton
Beach and people around the world who
have somehow Russian Roots but have no
connection to Russia otherwise
it's sad for me to see that anger is
directed at around people
leather kid ignores the haters like
personally I'm ignoring uh any mean
comments like you can see that I'm
staying positive but not everyone can
lose it and such kind of thing it it
grows I'm certain it sees it
thank you thank you letter I really
appreciate your support Liberty Books AZ
thanks Nikki you are so professional for
your big heart shows in every video and
your big heart chosen every thank you I
think my big heart maybe maybe kind of
be card shows in every video but I don't
really think I'm professional although
really thank you so much for your
opinion and your support
hoping the current events cause positive
changes for the world
we'll see we'll see
peace and love thank you from Rose
Williams somebody says to be honest not
that many people hate Russian people yes
I I realize that what I'm talking now
about the uh hate speech or something
like that it's still the minority of
people who are very judgmental to
Russians around the world but uh this
kind of grew it kind of became bigger
compared to three weeks ago and it's
something that concerns me very much
whatever uh we guys finished talking
about the prices
hopefully today's life was interesting
for you and I'm coming back with another
life on Saturday and with another video
perhaps before that
um even before that thank you so much
for staying here please guys hit that
like button it will help my channel to
grow thank you so much for your support
also thank you so much for sending me
super thanks and super stickers as
something that still makes me surprised
to see but I'm glad I'm having it
yeah you guys I'm also glad to have such
kind of audience well Liz do you want to
say hi to people
she's doing this
saying that she will do that on Saturday
live when actually I will kind of do it
together well guys thank you and enjoy
your day or enjoy your night because it
depends where you're staying at
I'll read the last message
thanks for the life
oh where is it Laura KIRO says thanks
for the life don't make decisions you
will regret perhaps there are some
decisions that I might regret already
although I try to make it at minimum so
hopefully not okay guys thank you for
being here and see you next time I'm
going to turn off the life now
oh where is that how to turn this off
here I'm using my phone to live stream
and it's actually not that convenient
okay I found it goodbye guys