hello from russia my name is nikki i
live in saint petersburg city and today
i'm gonna bring you to one of our
biggest malls the one behind me to show
how it looks like almost half a year
after sanctions took place in russia
we're also going to check out one of our
huge supermarkets to see what happened
to the grocery prices after russian
ruble got kinda stronger other prices
beating smaller or they getting higher
for local people and by the end of this
video i'm also gonna show you a few of
the stores inside the mall just to see
some of daily life things inside russia
and how much they cost for local people
i made a similar video just a few months
ago and since then we had a few major
changes a lot of foreign companies were
not just stopping their business like it
was like three four months ago but they
were sold to russian companies you most
likely heard this news about mcdonald's
now it's a brand new restaurant chain
and russia basically staying in the same
place where all mcdonald's restaurants
were and many other companies much
smaller doing exactly the same thing so
today we must be able to see some stores
that were closed a few months ago but
right now it's opened under a new
slightly changed naming here is the
entrance of the mall and we are kind of
staying in the central part of this area
and this is a perfect point to see the
effect of sanctions on our malls among
the close brands that you might know is
h in them over there sephora is actually
being sold to russian company starbucks
is closed and it's not coming back
although it says so buddhist parasho and
my favorite store a japanese uniqlo has
been closed too i don't think it will be
reopened any soon
we are staying at the first floor and
nothing really changed here we have a
lot of premium brands and the ones that
were closed they remained closed the
ones that were opened a few months ago
they still remained opened the only
thing i noticed a difference is we are
having a tiny fair where people can
basically buy some various stuff like
hats
or some minor souvenirs except one thing
that i find funny to show you is this
shark which is basically a replica of
ikea shark that is not possible to get
in russia right now and this bare
sausage looks sick like it's really bare
sausage over here buy a sausage over
here and also such kind of canned bear
meat let's go upstairs i think i have
seen some companies some stores that are
reopened here i should explain what
happened in russia in march and what is
happening right now related to foreign
companies and brands in march we had a
lot a lot of western businesses saying
that we are not going to deal with
russian customers we are stopping our
operation in russia just like starbucks
did and the real meaning behind it was
that they stopped operating inside
russia but they do not stop doing
100 of their business here they still
keep their employees still have some
kind of work doing behind the shops or
something like that that was in march i
think they had kind of hope that this
crisis will end in like two or three
months and then they will come back to
work and do business again inside russia
but apparently it didn't work out and
what's happening right now a lot a lot
of foreign companies are literally
selling everything they own here to
russian companies just like mcdonald's
did set in all their premises equipment
and is it correct to say sending their
employees as well because people who
worked in mcdonald's they are kind of
working in the same company just under a
russian brand
here's a real example for you reserved
and house these two companies recently
changed their owners as far as i know a
chinese company bought them and right
now stores are reopened the things that
i do not understand at this particular
shopping mall galleries in st petersburg
they still use this same logo the same
logo but not a new one this logo right
now should look like this
and research logo should be this i find
it really interesting they keep the
original the old logo over here but
inside of the store they use a new logo
within last couple of months i never got
inside of them i think let's go and see
how expensive are the most basic things
oh man this is sick rick's hoodie over
here for 999 ruble that's about 17 18
bucks right now found basic t-shirts
they all go quite a bit where is the
price for 800 rubles
and the pair of jeans won't cost here 2
000 rubles
and overall you see quite a lot of
people at the store it's like definitely
not the emptiest one
let's go check out reserved real quick
so far it looks just like zara to me i
didn't really buy much stuff at zara
before but i really like such kind of
huge bright store oh mate you know even
though i like the style of this store
it's very spacious i have a lot of like
space very bright here i was not able to
find a basic t-shirt and i barely found
basic pairs of jeans so far away from
the entrance just in the corner one pair
of jeans i like this kind of grayish
color cost here three thousand six
hundred rubles almost two times more
expensive than at the last store
although the genes feel much better and
this money
3600 russian rubles is a typical salary
for like three days of work in my
hometown and maybe two days of work here
in saint petersburg would you work two
or even three full days
to afford a pair of basic genes i don't
know guys i just said it now i think
like two or three days for a pair of
real good jeans that might be not the
worst deal but share how much of your
time do you need to spend to afford
buying just a good pair of jeans in your
country by the way we are getting
upstairs again there's a huge
food court and i'm starving people
really like coming over here just check
out this line of people for tirimok
which is a russian traditional fast food
restaurant that are preparing such kind
of russian pancakes you see there is a
pancake over there just getting ready
and once
they fry it well they're gonna put some
kind of food right inside depends on
what kind of pancake you're gonna choose
looks pretty nice people actually like
this chirimok place a lot so do i i even
filmed a video about them going there
with my girlfriend you can find it over
here and i'm going to find some food to
eat here apparently not tirimok but
something different there's actually
this second level of this food court it
calls eat market and upstairs there are
a lot of international foods it's
actually really really good although it
takes a bit longer time to receive food
over there and on the first floor there
are a lot of fast food places like that
burger king over there should be a new
mcdonald's and here is kfc closed
pakistan sushi buffett and peter bhujan
dumplings hi there apparently these guys
they're gonna do some vietnamese
football you see many people getting
stuff at kfc
many people getting stuff at burger king
and good old mcdonald's is still close i
actually don't know why they didn't
reopen this spot yet it's extremely
popular so many people coming over here
and i actually want to show you the
second level of this foot court over
here you can have a quick lunch for like
three four five american dollars and
upstairs it will cost you about six to
ten dollars for one single lunch
[Music]
well this food court actually looks sick
they even have a tiny bar over here
around there there's my favorite fobo
really really delicious stuff although
quite pricey it cost
490 rubles for a bowl of fobo i was
actually choosing between something
japanese korean is over there behind
vietnamese or thai and then
i found this place they have here a tiny
spot for oigur cuisine which is the
western region of china i've been to
oromchi a few times and i want to get a
bowl of noodles from this place i'm
going to take the beef lagman that is
for 430 rubles
i'm super hungry right now it's about
4pm already and i only had my breakfast
so finish this food first and then go
bring you to a local supermarket
welcome to pericrosstalk i already
filmed various videos here and i find it
very interesting to come back to the
exactly same spot because i can compare
how much were specific products back
then and how much they are right now i
have a list of the products that i
bought before here let's see if they
cost any different right now and before
we compare prices a few words about this
supermarket it's not the cheapest place
it's not the most expensive supermarket
i would say this is average or a little
bit above average price supermarket you
can see quite a lot of their branches
around saint petersburg around moscow
and a lot of people go for groceries
here so first let's go find the stuff
that i already filmed and bought before
and then find something new in this area
we have a lot of bread from local bread
factories and even from this supermarket
bakery i like to get such kind tiny tiny
buns just like this one and before i was
paying 10 rubles for each one today this
is 12 rubles for one place it's like 24
rubles for two of them right next to
bread we have a lot of sweets different
kind of cookies candies and over there
there are my favorite waffles let's go
find it oh here they are my favorite
stroop waffles we call it vavli galansky
dutch waffles half a year ago i was
getting this for about 70 rubles per
pack then it raised to 120 rubles per
pack and right now it's actually even
more expensive over here you can get a
lot of fresh stuff you can buy it in
small packages or just by kilograms and
you see these tomatoes is actually a
positive change because before the
cheapest tomatoes they cost 210 rubles
but right now that's actually as cheap
as 90 rubles a kilo that's actually good
news at least something gets cheaper
although that's happening every single
year in winter it's the most expensive
time to buy fresh food in russia and in
summer it's usually the cheapest exactly
same thing happened to bananas i used to
buy it for about 40 50 rubles back then
before all the sanctions then last time
when i came here it cost more than 100
rubles a kilo right now it's sitting at
68 rubles a kilo the price actually
changed for nearly all vegetables and
fruits that i can find in the store in a
better direction i mean cheaper and only
the most exotic fruits are still staying
expensive like mangoes papayas coconuts
and the rest of them now let's go find
some real food my favorite eggs exactly
this one stays the same price of 120
rubles although here are some cheaper
eggs that are like two times cheaper
than that as i remember before april it
was not possible to find eggs as cheap
as these ones the cheapest ones i found
it was like 70 75 rubles per 10 pack but
right now the cheapest eggs at this
store cost 56 russian rubles which is
again something that i haven't seen
before april 2022 at this place we have
various kinds of meat before it was 190
rubles for a pack discounted and now
there's just 10 rubles more expensive
and this fish has a huge contrast with
the beef we just have seen this was one
thousand nine hundred a kilo before now
it's two thousand nine hundred this fish
became one thousand ruble more expensive
and right next to the fresh fish we have
a frozen section for all kinds of red
fish interestingly i am not able to find
exactly the same product like i was
seeing all the time before simply that
brand disappear from this store maybe
because it was too expensive instead of
that i can see a lot of other cheaper
fishes in the freezer about a year ago i
could get this kind of fish not for 500
troubles but for about 200 but right now
you can't really find many things for
200 rubles
over here and over here is my favorite
section of the supermarket dairy
products and this product is exactly my
favorite that is something we call baked
milk today it cost 105 rubles which is
more expensive than last time although
with a discount it might be as low as 71
ruble but for 71 rubles they're gonna
expire tomorrow
and here is the last thing that we can
compare with confidence that is kubanski
just some rice there is no price tag for
the ones that we chose before but i
checked it and it's 160 rubles today
compared to 130 rubles for the last time
so guys what can i say most of the stuff
that i showed you right now became more
expensive and there is an interesting
thing the russian ruble raid is growing
so the prices are doing the same thing
always we even have a saying in russia
very old words that no matter what
happens in russia the vodka is getting
more expensive talking about vodka
[Applause]
[Music]
so the products that i showed you are
actually kind of random and i want to
ask you guys to write a comment about
what kind of products do you want me to
show you next time going to a
supermarket and i will do it now let's
actually find some more products so i
can use it as a reference to show you
what was before and what will be in the
future and we will start with russian
vodka here is half a liter of my
hometown vodka made in siberia costs 260
rubles with a discount let's remember
that this fun rainbow ice cream cost
150 rubles i really struggled with
finding the price tag for it look it
stays here but the price tag is
long over there that is actually a
common problem for all ice cream
freezers in russia have a lot of soda
drinks over here interesting thing i
cannot find a single coca-cola drink
over here i can find original pepsi for
like 90 rubles a liter a russian
alternative would cost us 100 rubles for
2 liters that is baikal chernagalovka
and over here is the cheapest
alternative for cola it just says cola
and it costs 40 rubles per 2 liters hey
guys don't forget to subscribe and hit
that like button a cream cheese such
pack cost 145 rubles and just normal
cheese something like this one 200 grams
cost 160 rubles
with a discount and before we get out of
this supermarket let me show you guys
something special remember that bear
meat on the first floor at a tiny fair i
found it here we can get this kind of
barramundi for 540 russian rubles but
i'm not gonna get it anyways i think
this supermarket trick was quite
insightful and now we are going to our
last destination some tech stores i
think that will be really relevant to
compare prices for that because for food
for groceries for clothes maybe we will
not find exactly the same specific
product inside russia and in other
countries in your country but for tech
we are able to find exactly the same
product to compare and first we are
going to samsung or how do you actually
read it in russian we say some sunk in
english i guess samsung whatever let's
get inside here is galaxy z fault three
and it cost
two hundred thousand troubles for 256
gb uh galaxy s9
the only galaxy s4 is galaxy s 21 fe and
it costs 63 000 trouble for 128 gb and
even though there are some models like
galaxy s22 galaxy s22 plus it says that
i should ask the salesman if they have
this and i actually asked if they have
these models in stock the answer was
they don't as for apple products we
still have the same stores opened in
russia because of one tiny details we
never had original apple stores instead
of it we have apple premium resellers
these are huge companies they have a lot
of apple products in stock although they
are not able to get the newest products
on apple so let's see if they have
anything here today and how much does it
cost the cheapest iphone 13 mini won't
cost at least 73 000 rubles for 128 gb
and if i wanted to upgrade my iphone 12
pro i will need to pay 140 000 for
iphone 13 pro that's like super
expensive in russia a fun fact guys this
laptop the one in the middle like you
see this price 410 000 rubles for this
laptop that is exactly what an average
russian earns in my siberian hot town
for one year i actually have friends who
earn less than that in one year back
there in siberia the city of omega apple
was always kind of expensive clean in
russia but right now taking in fact the
change in russian ruble rate taking in
fact the rise in prices and the salary
staying on the same level as before that
is just super expensive luxury thing
right now i hope you learned something
new this video and if you want to watch
more stuff from russia check out this
video spasiba and pakka