hello from russia my name is nikki i
live in saint petersburg city in this
video i'm going to take you to one of
the biggest mall in saint petersburg
city to see how it looks like six weeks
after sanctions took place in russia and
also we're going to check out a huge
russian supermarket and see if prices
went really up or they stay on the same
level again six weeks after the
sanctions it is the very center of saint
petersburg city right next to moscow
railway station and nevsky prospect
being behind me i made a video on a
similar subject about one month ago and
that time we saw that many companies
were leaving russia but apparently not
as many as we had in the following month
apparently uniqlo is still opened but
they will be closed in some amount of
time and the line of people starting
their goals over there to the entrance i
also saw that many groceries that i got
used to have for myself really often got
much more expensive and almost none of
the products were staying the same price
so
really curious about what you're going
to see here today honestly guys it feels
even a little more surreal than it was
like one month ago because around me i'm
staying at the very central part of the
mall the entrance is right behind me and
here is a huge area
where you can basically see every single
floor and every single store around this
area is closed like this uniqlo and h m
right next to the entrance so literally
around this area only that korean store
is opened and over here is a very weird
store of some kind of like cigarette
like things they actually have two
stores one is the pop-up store and one
is like normal one
to the left
and to the right everything is closed
but the most ironic closed store is
actually starbucks they made this wall i
don't know like half a year or maybe
even one year ago to operate as normally
during the corvid regulations put inside
russia and they somehow could keep
working as before but now it's
completely closed and as actually said
we are opened last time i made a video
from a mall i say something like that we
are still staying in the middle of
the process of companies leaving russia
and most likely in a few coming weeks
we'll see much more brands to close
their stores and apparently that is kind
of true
comparing to one month ago i see much
more stores quit in russia and i think
for now it's more or less kind of stable
and most likely
what you see now what i see here today
will not be very different from what we
might see here in one month or in two
months here i should mention if you have
something like hey nikki what are you
talking about there's some terrible
things happening in ukraine and you're
just talking about
shopping malls and product stuff and so
on guys i just want to be your
additional source of information and i
know you have your sources of getting to
know what's going on there in ukraine
and i want to be your tiny window into
what's happening here around me in saint
petersburg mate you see that yellow box
that is actually atm of my band and that
was so crowded basically full of people
staying around it because it was one of
these sources to withdraw foreign
currency apparently today there is
nobody staying here in line and i wonder
if it's any different than like a month
ago or not it's actually one of my
favorite events in russia and they have
really good user interface and you can
understand if you can withdraw any money
straight away if they have any english
yeah it's more understandable for you so
you can withdraw russian rubles and
american dollars simply this sign means
that there is enough money for that so
there are really some dollars but
unfortunately i cannot withdraw anything
because all my foreign currencies that i
have right now it's something that i
received after
march the 9th and there is a new
regulation saying that russians who
received
american dollars or any other foreign
currency after march 9th cannot withdraw
it in russia like there is no way of
getting foreign currency after march 9.
there is actually so many new
regulations in my country that reduce
our freedom of travel of receiving
information and of course freedom of
speech previous video i showed you what
news looked like for people in russia
and received so much positive feedback
thank you i feel happy that you found
that video interesting and informative
to watch also in the previous video i
mentioned the way i receive news myself
mostly from reading the news digest from
elijah lumpf his team actually reached
me out and asked whether i can share a
few more words about elia and yeah i
personally watched hundreds of his
videos verlamov is a popular blogger and
journalist in russia he has more than 3
million followers on his youtube channel
and apparently i'm one of them he does a
lot for changing russia into a better
place and recently he does a great job
at observing what is happening between
russia and ukraine and what is happening
inside russia he recently started a new
channel with his videos translated in
english and i'll put a link to one of
his recent videos that is just a perfect
match for my previous video where i
showed you the news that people see
inside russia and varanamov explains why
it's happening like this
propaganda is telling russians that
nazis have seized power in ukraine that
the country must be liberated from them
in russia it's forbidden to call it a
war if you want to understand russia and
russian people better you can find a lot
of interesting videos on his channel all
this time we were staying on the first
floor and at most russian shopping malls
the first floor belongs to really
expensive brands or to really huge chain
stores like h m and uniqlo now we are
getting to the second floor and my guess
is
the first floor was quite empty
especially this alley
underneath and
many stores were basically closed here
on the second store in the third store
there must be a lot of smaller chains
smaller stores and most likely less
shops will be closed here i'm actually
not correct about the second floor so
many places closed here like this poland
bear over here i think there is no sign
of anything but before it was adidas and
they moved out they don't even have
anything left from their name
and over there is i see bershka
stradivarius
and
few more stores some of them remain open
most of them are closed in russia we
have no more zara we have
zarina
so what i see here today is like half
empty mall in terms of these stores
being closed and opened here and also
not so many people being here but
perhaps
it's because today is the evening of
monday i'm having a free time today but
apparently not many people went shopping
today so that is the first level of food
court and a lot of people hanging out
around here the very first store that we
see is tirimok which is russian
traditional fast food they make in
blinny russian pancakes you can see it's
always there that's actually quite
interesting this one is chinese food
that is russian food dumplings and over
there you see that some stores are
actually closed dear friends we
temporarily stop the operation of our
network bye bye mcdonald's and i think
the kfc from the left and burger king
from the right i'm making double income
these days
this place is really massive and it
basically has any kind of food you might
think of found the restaurant of
vietnamese cuisine and i think i'm going
to get this one for bo which is
basically a soup this beef and it cost
450 rubles which is like four and a half
dollars today that is actually quite
expensive for russia like 450 rubles for
a bowl of pho box but it looks so huge
and it actually looks very nice
now i'm getting downstairs to go grocery
shopping at local supermarket that is
pericrostic an average price supermarket
in russia one of my favorites to go get
my groceries pericrowstoc is a huge
supermarket and i often come here to get
my groceries and at this very place at
galileo mall they actually have not only
the supermarket itself they do have a
tiny bakery over there and they also
have something like a mini cafe over
there before coming here i wrote a short
shopping list so we're gonna get
everything that i wrote there and i'll
see if any prices for any of these
products actually more or less same as
my expectations or they are much higher
every single russian supermarket has
such kind of baked local factory bread
and it's literally nothing special looks
just like this this loaf cost
100 rubles which is like a little bit
more than a dollar and honestly that is
much more expensive than it was before
but i cannot remember the exit price i'm
not going to take anything from here
because this pericle stack has their own
bakery this quite nice kind of bread i
actually enjoy getting such kind of tiny
ciabatta with olives and such tiny
really little
buns these tiny buns cost 10 rubles each
and it's actually exactly the same as i
got it like two months ago
next thing we are looking for is
something sweet and i really hope to
find galansky waffle that's literally my
favorite kind of waffles and last month
i couldn't find it in my local
supermarkets and i have no idea why they
actually disappeared from there from
what i see here they are at the same
very spot but the difference is the
price so
120 ruble for one pack of
these holland waffles waffle galanski is
actually so much before i paid 70 ruble
for this pack and sometimes even cheaper
if it was any kind of promotion for this
and now it costs 120 rubles per pack so
apparently 80 percent more expensive
more or less that's a big difference
honestly i can't remember price for
every single product here and we have a
lot of swedes in russia but such kind of
price like 100 rubles for a pack of
these
cookies and also such kind of waffles
for 120 rubles it's different kind of
waffles it feels really really much more
expensive than it was before let's go
see if i can say such words about
vegetables or fruits well guys i wanted
to get some tomatoes and every single
kind of tomatoes now feels illegally
expensive like the cheapest i could find
is 210 ruble for one kilo of it and the
most expensive one is like
339 rubles i guess it's this kind of
orange ones meanwhile the price that i
get used to see normally in a russian
winter is like 180 200 rubles for a kilo
so it's like the cheapest ones over here
is kinda in that border but any other
got much more expensive i'll take a few
of tomatoes from azerbaijan
they seem to be really nice
at this store you gotta wait it by
yourself literally place it over here
and then you gotta remember this number
23
is it all right then you get such kind
of sticker you simply put it over here
bananas go really bananas here like i
used to buy such kind of bananas for 40
50 rubles per kilo but right now it's
106 ruble
for one kilo and we also have smaller
bananas that remind me very much
thailand
my time in asia but they're much more
expensive they cost 260 ruble
[Music]
next thing we are looking for is rice
and i used to get some rice for about
100 for 120
rubles per one pack
and i will try to look for exactly that
kind of the rice that i got last time
and see if
it is any different
so this is the rise that i used to buy
before
it is kobanski and i paid 120 maybe with
less rubles for that right now that is
142 rubles which is like a little bit
more expensive but i'm not going to get
this one today instead i want to get
such kind of
jasmine
rice which is much smaller
and i actually want to cook this one
tonight it's 92 rubles for a small pack
next thing we are going to get is some
dairy products and in russia we have a
lot of dairy stuff starting from such
kind of condensed milk or any kind of
creams or any kind of i don't know
butter does it count
i also do have like smithtown and many
many more stuff and today i'm actually
looking for baked milk it's over here
tablione loco baked milk which looks a
little bit more like caramel color it
tastes a little bit more like caramel
too
and it cost 94 rubles which is honestly
much more than before i used to buy this
for like 70 rubles before now it's like
95. this is the eggs that i was getting
every single time for myself usually it
costs like a little bit less than 100
rubles then a few weeks ago it was 110
rubles now it's like 120 rubles so you
see the inflation and i am not going to
take this one today because i saw such
kind of um eggs for discount also c0 so
basically same as that one for
90 ruble which is okay price but
originally it cost 115 which is quite
expensive
[Music]
also i'm going to get some grated
parmesan cheese and it's like more or
less the same for 270 rubles for such
kind of pack i think it was a little bit
cheaper before but i cannot remember for
what price exactly
found this kind of pesto sauce which is
actually having the local trademark
perikriostek which is the supermarket's
name but actually it was made in italy
for this supermarket which is looks
pretty nice i'm gonna get this one for
190 rubles here is the entire stand of
mira torque meat it's a huge russian
company producing any kind of meat and
here's the beef means before originally
250 rubles but if you have the
supermarkets card you will pay 190
rubles for 400 gram of it so it looks
reasonable and actually i know that this
one is a good quality so i'm going to
take it and 200 rubles for this pack it
doesn't feel too expensive i think it's
more or less same as before maybe even
before it could be a nice price for such
kind of beef
now we have the last thing
the
red fish
let's go see how much is that apparently
we have two options either in such kind
of refrigerator or such kind of fresh
salted fish and the price for it is like
1900 trouble for one kilo
or one thousand seven hundred for one
kilo for different kinds of fish
although it's not the fish that i
usually get like i almost never get that
kind of uh fresh stuff i don't know why
like personally i prefer getting such
kind of small packs for like 200 grams
but now it's much more expensive i used
to buy this kind of fish for like 250
rubles before now it's like almost 500
rubles and as an interesting result of
prices going up i see
this kind of brand and mostly any other
kind of brands they have much smaller
packs of this fish it's 120 grams like
just look at this 120 grams in a pack
for 300 rubles so here's what i'm going
to get it's like 180 grams for this kind
of fish and it cost 400 troubles before
280 rubles with a discount and guys i
just realized one thing that many people
in russia including myself got to use to
have very low salary very low income and
we pay a lot of attention for such kind
of discounts
and i don't know for me it's still a
thing when i go to a supermarket i often
pick a product that is like being
discounted i just checked the best
before date and if that's alright i'm
getting this just like you saw me doing
today i actually wonder if it's like
typical for russia and post-soviet
countries or is also a thing in your
countries here's our car today all these
stuff that you've seen me buying and
also i found these soba noodles and also
this tom yum paste and this one cost
about 50 rubles which is normal price
and this one is actually discounted for
like 80 rubles a pack which is very
cheap now let's go pay for that in this
store you can either use such kind of
physical cashiers or you can go a little
bit farther
and use any of these modern
machines which i of course prefer using
let's go over here
i thought what could i say by the end of
this video and i have just one thought
in my head right now living in russia is
becoming harder for people in general
and for me personally but russian people
get used to hardships of life since the
moment they were born and this makes a
weird situation when people clearly see
their life is becoming harder not as
good as before and meanwhile they're
kinda all right with that i often hear
things like yes mcdonald's is leaving
russia but we actually will benefit from
it because people will eat healthier
food or yes the groceries are getting
more expensive but it's like actually
not too much and we are all right with
that and if you go to streets in russia
to ask people how sanctions affected
their life they will say they will
survive and i cannot disagree with that
indeed people will survive i will
survive here under any kind of sanctions
but i don't want to have people around
me just surviving i want people around
me living a full life of course not just
in russia but everywhere around the
world don't forget to like this video
and subscribe to my channel spasiba and
paka