mobilization in Russia is officially
finished that if you believe to our
lovely Russian government I guess soon
we will know if this partial
mobilization is actually finished or not
and in this video I'm gonna show you how
exactly Russian government got people to
join their army and believe me they
invented some really creative ways of
mobilizing people who do not want to get
mobilized yeah
um
[Music]
hi my name is Nikki on this channel I
have plenty of videos about my life in
Russia and recently I also started
making updates on what's going on what's
happening in my homeland I know that
many of you come for these update but I
also hope that some of you will stay for
other kind of videos on my channel after
leaving Russia I started to film more
videos about the places I visit around
the world like my latest Vlog from
Istanbul City where I'm staying right
now give it a watch maybe you'll enjoy
it and if you enjoyed please subscribe
to my Channel with a notification Bell
so you will not miss any uploads from me
now let's talk mobilization four weeks
ago Russia started mobilization and that
day I was staying in Saint Petersburg
City and I remember walking the city
center in the afternoon in the evening
those during the protests and I heard a
lot of people talking about mobilization
discussions in numbers that they heard
from Russian president 300
000 people to get mobilized a lot of
people were really concerned about how
long this mobilization will last and
will there be like the second wave of
memorization or not and right now
exactly four weeks after that day I can
see in Russian news that immobilization
is kinda over regions of Russia one
after another started to say that we did
the plan we performed wealth of this
mobilization we gathered this amount of
soldiers we gathered this amount of
people to get mobilized some reaches
were more productive at getting people
mobilized than other for example large
cities especially Moscow especially
Saint Petersburg were not that good at
completing the plan but even like this a
few days ago October 14th we had Mr
Putin giving us some details about the
amount of people who were mobilized
during this time he said that 222
000 of people were mobilized across the
entire country and the same day we have
one of Moscow officials saying some
words about process of mobilization in
Moscow here's just a tiny part of what
he said but Moscow did only 50 of the
plan even though the plan was really
small how rotten Moscow turned to be so
apparently by that time 23 days after
the start of mobilization Moscow not
perform even 50 percent of their plan
but then something changed three more
days after that we got official
statement from Moscow saying that the
mobilization in that region of Russia in
the capital of Russia is finished as
well
such a quick change right during the
first three weeks they performed half of
the plan and then it took another three
days to perform the other half and about
the same thing happened in the city of
Saint Petersburg which made me realize
that my decision to leave was like super
super on time I was thinking like maybe
I left Russia a little bit too fast
maybe I could stay there for another
month or two or three and be safe from
mobilization basically not getting
mobilized because of previous process of
mobilization basically Russian wine
camaks recruitment offices they were
sending special call to Army letters
either to people's form I mean to the
official address of my residence that I
have written in my internal passport or
they send such letters to official jobs
basically to companies that you work to
and I was kinda safe from receiving a
cold Army letter boss of this race I
lived not under my address of
registration and I also didn't work for
any large company but since October 14th
win commands from Moscow in Saint
Petersburg kinda invented a new way to
giving this call to Army letters since
that day we started receiving messages
from people who saw police and unknown
officials presumably members of Russian
women patrolling and stain of the first
floors of residential buildings
basically waiting for men of suitable
age for handing them a call to Army
letters
is
[Music]
always
[Music]
distance
[Applause]
and it wasn't just a single case we had
multiple examples of such kind of
innovative and yet I think a legal way
of handing the equal to Army letters so
what it means there are a lot of people
who live not under their official
address of registration like I did in
Saint Petersburg technically and even
legally these people could not receive
these call to Army letters and yet our
government found a way to do that well
apparently there might be a lot of
people in Saint Petersburg who decided
not to go to work that day and in Moscow
local government invented another way of
mobilizing people Moscow man of suitable
age I mean from 18 to something like 50
or 55 years old might face the danger of
receiving this cultural Army letter
while taking a Subway
[Music]
we had a lot of examples how police
again with unknown civilians stop random
people at streets they basically pick
men who look like this suitable for
mobilization they check documents
passports and then either say you can go
or fill the equal to Army letter right
on the spot moreover if their database
says that the person they stopped has
received the culture Army letter already
and did not go to the wine come out they
take this person and deliver to when
come on straight away can you imagine
these two scenarios police waiting right
at your home or police catching stopping
people right at the street near Subway
entrances or inside the subway we
couldn't imagine that this world
actually happened just a month ago and
now it's actually happening you know now
I think what if last month I did not
decide to leave but instead I decided to
stay definitely I after seeing such kind
of news since such new methods of
getting people mobilized they'll
consider to live anyways and if you
think that it's all what I wanted to
share with you today it's actually not
because Moscow in Saint Petersburg
government got really really creative at
finding new people for Army and the next
one is really really relatable to me
because last year when I was living in
Saint Petersburg I was actually renting
an apartment at a hotel complex in
Russia we call it apart hotel and
basically it's about the same as renting
a one-bedroom apartment but you need to
worry less about daily life stuff and
you also can rent it for a very short
term let's say one month instead of a
year so I was living in such a part
hotel and by the time when the
mobilization started I thought there is
no way that officials can reach me while
I'm living in such a place basically
nobody knows that I'm living there and
there is no way of receiving any kind of
official letters that's what I thought
before and now staying here in October
2022 I see that at least in Moscow local
government created a new legal document
basically saying that all hostels hotels
apart hotels should share your
information about their guests who are
men from 18 to 55 years old how crazy it
is and we already saw the first news
from Moscow October the 12th in four
o'clock in the morning police made their
raid on one of the hostels and they took
about 20 men from the hostel right to
Divine
kamatics
[Music]
questions
[Music]
and according to that piece of news
people who were taken from that hostel
in early morning the next very days they
already had the military uniform and
also a special piece of paper basically
in order to go to the place that they
need to go there are also some other
methods that Moscow government uses to
realize more people like they are
literally taking homeless people there
are also multiple cases of foreigners
receiving these called the Army letters
I mean foreigners talking about people
who have double citizenship and there
are even Street genders who basically
receive a pack of such kind of culto
army letters which they are just handing
out to random people they meet on the
street All This Together made Moscow
able to finish their magnetization plan
really fast basically during the last
three days they took a lot of people to
Army and the mayor of Moscow says that
the immobilization is over so whoever
else receives the call to Army later
like don't worry about that even if you
received it even if you signed that
letter with your signature no worry just
mobilization is over many people would
actually believe that mobilization is
over such words were said about Mass go
about Saint Petersburg about literally
many many other regions of Russia but
what we have in papers legally the
mobilization is not over it does not
have an ending date it does not have any
information on the final amount amount
of people who need to get drafted Nick
the editor is here the day I'm uploading
this video we had a few updates on these
mobilization stuff and also we had
really big news about martial law
applied in Russia talking about
mobilization I still see in the news
that mobilization is kinda over in
Moscow although people keep seeing a lot
of policemen and police cars everywhere
around the city Subway basically doing
the same things as they were doing
during the last couple of days as for
the martial law that was announced by
Vladimir Putin that is a very
complicated topic simply because this
martial law was fully applied in four
regions in four territories that are not
recognized by most of International
countries and yet recognized by Russia
as a part of Russia I'm talking about
the netsk and Logan's people's republics
and also about the parosia and her son
regions this martial law is definitely
gonna affect the entire population of
Russia and I guess that's gonna be the
next episode of what Russian media tell
us about martial law tell me in the
comments if you actually would like to
see this video or not now coming back to
Old Navy okay so yeah I guess we'll see
the continuation of this story in next
couple of days and I just wanted to give
you this update on mobilization process
because honestly this kind of stuff
looks just crazy and hilarious go
comment about what kind of update on
Russia you want to see next don't forget
to subscribe to my channel spaceba and
Paka