hello from russia my name is nikki i
live in st petersburg city and this
video is a quick update from the
beginning of april about what i see what
i feel and what i experience while
living in saint petersburg city the
second biggest city in russia we are
staying at new holland park one of my
tiny favorite spots in saint petersburg
came here with my friend lisa and during
this update video i want to share a bit
of how this place looks because if you
ever visit st petersburg and i hope this
day will someday happen you'll be able
to explore this place by yourself yeah a
huge disclaimer before we get started to
talk about all the recent stuff on this
channel i share my personal daily life
here in saint petersburg and i don't
cover anything that is happening in
ukraine i believe that people have their
own sources of getting information about
that and i want to keep this channel
about things that i see experience and
feel by myself so the general overview
of the past few weeks is many companies
were quitting russia and they quit like
literally every single company who
wanted to stop doing business with
russia they
did it
same is fair enough to say about people
i have friends who wanted to leave the
country and they already quit either
they are greeting like in a week or two
russian ruble that was really really
cheap about 100 cheaper a few weeks ago
came back to it's like about a regional
price that it was a month or even two
months ago but anyways the prices that
we have here in russia um they are
staying really high for regular people
we still have a lot of websites and
platforms blocked like bbc news like
google news like instagram and facebook
are blocked fortunately youtube is not
one of these platforms and i'm still
able to upload my videos here as
normally hope it will be like this for
longer time and all this stuff is
actually quite minor comparing to what i
see what i hear in the news and when i
try to compare what people hear in the
news from the russian side on russian tv
on russian newspaper russian radio and
what people actually get as news
somewhere abroad it's two different
realities so now let's talk a little bit
more about everything i just mentioned
starting with companies and people live
in russia first about companies live in
russia a few weeks ago i made a video
from my local shopping mall showing what
kind of brands stay what kind of brands
live and compared to that time we have
much more live in russia but at the same
time there are still many like really
many more foreign companies that still
operate in russia and if right now i go
let's say to the biggest mall in saint
petersburg i still will see a lot of
foreign brands there although the half
of the mall will be empty most likely
the companies that still operate there
they will keep working as normally and
they are not planning to leave and i
think same thing is fair enough to say
about people i have quite a few friends
who quit russia in the very beginning in
the end of february or in the beginning
of march some of them quit to georgia to
turkey to azerbaijan using this place as
a transportation hub on their way to
somewhere in europe or to america or to
asia you might see that some other
russian youtubers also quit russia like
roman no he quit georges i
remember darius steph she quit to turkey
and inside russia if i remember
correctly
staying in uzbekistan is that it guys if
you watch this video give me a message
it will be nice to have a quick zoom
interview with you yeah i also have
quite a few friends who are preparing to
leave russia right now like one friend
of mine is going to move to greece and
the way out is like
first he should take a flight to
istanbul and then take a flight to
greece because there is no direct
connection with russia and greece itself
have quite a few friends going to asia
because it's possible to go to bali
indonesia it's possible to go to
thailand in vietnam right now as far as
i know and basically i think it's the
last wave of my friends who i live in
russia and most likely in a month or two
months nobody will actually uh prepare
to relocate but most likely people will
try to go somewhere for a summer
vacation personally myself i get a lot
of messages from people saying like
nikki you should tweet russia asap um
nikki i have an option for you nikki i
have um i have an offer for you like i
got a message from a guy from serbia
saying that i can get a free apartment
in belgrade and a message from somebody
from the u.s offering me a job position
visa support and something like that and
quite a few other messages but here my
opinion stays the same i'll stay in st
petersburg until the moment when i feel
i have any kind of danger to myself
physically and that is the only possible
situation when i'll consider leaving
russia asap otherwise i'll perhaps stay
here for longer and quit only in half a
year or in a year another thing to talk
about is russian money because in the
very beginning of this entire conflict
russian ruble was like really like a
joke it lost about 80 percent of its
value and uh based on that many russian
prices like literally for everything for
groceries for rental for any kind of
services for any kind of products it
started to get much more expensive some
of stuff like 10 20 more expensive some
stuff for like 50 more expensive i
actually made a video about that for
showing how my local groceries
became bigger in price and now we have
russian ruble to get a little bit
stronger and we have it on the same
level like it was six eight weeks ago
but the prices don't come back to the
earliest level most likely because it's
not only about the russian ruble rate
but also about all these sanctions all
the transportation problem all the kind
business problem and whatever it is so
most likely regular russian people will
not benefit
a lot from ruble getting stronger again
i see that many of my friends and many
of my family members they do not have
their income
raised compared to let's say january
february it's on the same level and they
are kind of struggling to pay for their
housing to pay for their any kind of
bank debts and to pay even for their
groceries fortunately i don't have to
worry too much about financial issue
mostly because i have this youtube
channel like uh that somehow exploded
and i still haven't got the pay from
youtube but in the beginning of april i
gonna have
as i expect a huge paycheck from youtube
so i have no worries about uh affording
groceries or paying for my apartment but
i feel that many of my friends and
basically just ordinary russian people
they struggle a lot from the very
beginning of the special military
operation in ukraine talking about
social media and technology now even my
babushka my grandmother uses vpn right
now to access instagram to see my
stories and my posts and that is
something i didn't expect to happen
when russia blocked instagram millions
and millions of people
started to use vpn learn to use vpn and
now if you wonder like wait russia
blocked instagram why nick is still
posting there or why any russians are
still staying on instagram
because they use vpn a few weeks ago we
had some troubles for getting a paid vpn
because mastercard and visas didn't let
us to pay to foreign companies and there
were like no normal ways to pay for vpns
so many people were using free vpns some
people tried to find other ways to get a
paid vpn but right now it's actually
better i see a lot of russian youtubers
who do content for russians they promote
uh a few certain vpns
that accept payment from russian people
right now so it's like not a big deal it
got much more accessible and as a result
millions of people including my babushka
use that to reach information that is
blocked
by russia so it is kind of an example
when something bad makes people to learn
something good and uh personally i also
learned quite a few things from
instagram and other platforms being
blocked uh in russian internet since
that time i started posting more on my
telegram channel and guys if you are not
on my telegram channel yet go join
sometimes i start discussions about
what's happening in russia and basically
sharing a little bit more personal stuff
i have a link to my telegram channel in
the description and also go give me a
follow on instagram where i share daily
life stories about basically some
personal updates and coming back to
using vpn russians actually started to
use it not only to
reach in let's say instagram facebook
many people also try to reach some
independent medias that were blocked in
russia let's say bbc news is blocked
medusa blocks and many other
medias that were
observing what is happening in ukraine
are blocked and people who started to
use in vpn for instagram somehow they
also learned how to use media that are
not welcomed in russia anymore and
talking about news media that it's a
huge thing i think i'll make an entire
video mentioning this problem
but news are just different here in
russia it's like two complete different
realities of what russian people see in
local news and what you guys see in news
in your countries i don't really want to
talk too much about the news in this
video but i give you a couple of
examples what exactly do russian people
see in let's say russian television and
what you might hear about the same
events in your country so most likely
you have heard about the tragedy in
bucha and the main rhetoric of russian
news about that is that it is a
provocation from the west it's
provocation from ukraine and russia is
actually innocent about that most likely
that is very very different from what
you might hear on your tv this sad fact
is that actually many people in russia
especially people who live far away from
saint petersburg from moscow let's say
somewhere in siberia or in small remote
towns and villages they rely a lot on
russian tv on russian newspapers and you
you can understand what kind of stuff
they get in their minds as a result i
see that many people let's say in moscow
and saint petersburg including myself
have access to
all sides all kinds of media and to
russian media and to international
medias that even were blocked here in
russia we can we can see everything from
a few different angles of views and do
some critical thinking and apparently
many people in russia they actually
don't have
the desire or the ability to use their
critical thinking
which makes the society around me people
around me uh really polarized about
what's going on between russia and
ukraine last couple of weeks i started
to feel that i kind of belonged less to
people around me to this city than a
month or two before you know right now i
feel that it's such kind of spontaneous
video i just had a walk here with lisa
and i asked hey lisa do you want to like
help me to record this video and she
said yeah i hope this video is kind of
interesting or at least a little bit
informative for you i'm really curious
about your opinion i also have one tiny
announcement for you on this channel i
share a lot about my personal daily life
and also a lot about like what's going
on around me but i think it will be
really nice to make it a little bit
bigger i want to try making our first
community video basically sharing the
stories of people who watch me around
the world i want to show how daily lives
of regular people around the world
changed or were influenced by the last
month i have a link down below where you
can learn about my idea and if you want
to participate record a video of like
five maximum 10 minutes long and i might
include your story in our first
community video thank you so much for
being with me and being such a
supportive community honestly when i was
in the middle of this conversation i
actually wanted to mention a few
negative or even discriminating comments
i received recently on my channel but
then i remember that 99.9
of people who are staying with me
actually leave so nice
good words
under my videos thank you so much for
that and if you want to watch more stuff
from russia check out this playlist