hello from russia this video i'm going
to talk some tiny interesting details
that you most likely do not see in your
local news and yet i find these tiny
details quite interesting to share with
you hello my name is nikki i live in
saint petersburg city but today we are
staying at a different place at the city
of wilburg which is just half an hour
away to finland literally half an hour
in that direction hey ostavani a little
disclaimer i'm not going to talk about
politics today it's rather a video about
tiny details of my daily life here in
russia
the first thing that i want to share is
something that you might call a robbery
or a theft but in modern russia that is
called a bank fee a short story first so
you understand the context since march
we had a lot of sanctions towards
russian banks and basically most of
russian banks were cut off from using
swede so anyone who receives revenue
from youtube or any kind of transactions
from foreign companies
they were not able to receive it as
usual fortunately for me my bank tinkoff
was not under sanctions and it was
possible to receive sweet transfers as
usual so every single month youtube kept
paying me my revenue like again and
again as usual and here i should clarify
one thing about youtube monetization
because people are usually getting
confused when they get to know that i'm
still able to receive money from youtube
while staying in russia
so creators from russia are still able
to receive their revenue from google
that's all right what was banned is the
opportunity or the ability of users from
russia to see advertisement on any
videos on the platform so let's say if i
start to watch a video created by an
american person or somebody from britain
or somebody from any other country
around the world i will not see any
advertisement on their channel on their
videos so that creator will receive zero
money from views from russia honestly
that feels like having a youtube premium
for free for the entire population of
russia which might be really convenient
for russian users and really really
devastating for creators based in russia
that have only views coming from russian
people
many creators and many other people who
needed to receive money from abroad
switched to using tinkoff bank and what
did tinkoff do about that well they
created a few new juicy commissions one
of them is actually hitting a lot of
people in russia there is a minimal
commission for swift transfers coming to
tinkoff bank the minimum fee is 200
units that's a word in russians that we
use when we want to say a foreign
currency but don't want to name a
foreign currency so 200 units units it's
equal to 200 or euros or british pounds
so basically this commission applies to
every single transfer that is coming to
tinkov by swift so if for example
somebody of you want to send me 250
dollars to my bank account then tinkoff
will take their fair fee of two hundred
dollars and i'll receive only fifty
dollars on my account which is
ridiculous
what if somebody will um have to receive
a smaller transfer not two hundred
dollars but let's say 147 dollars there
are a lot of youtube creators in russia
who rely on youtube revenue and
sometimes their income might be not so
much let's say this 147 dollars a month
and if google will send it to somebody
to a small creator in russia
then tinkoff will actually take 100 of
the transfer as a fee because it's lower
than the minimum fee
which is insane
and what we are left to do well
technically we can find the new bank
instead of tinker but realistically i
think that with time most of russian
banks will have similar stuff for swift
transactions and for foreign currency
operations i don't want to spend too
much time talking about this banking
stuff i just found that this tiny detail
is oh mate what is going on there
i just wanted to share this tiny detail
with you because i find it quite
interesting and i don't think there's
anything like this happening in any
country of the world where basically
regular people have to pay such huge
fees for
bank transfers there are also some other
changes i guess i'm just show it on the
screen so you'll not spend too much time
talking about them and lastly i had a
conversation with the bank staff and
they advised me to use a different bank
or start earning more money so their
fees will not feel that high
this guy just arrived here and he says
it's 2
500 rubles for having a boat tour around
this wonderful place so i guess it's
like 50 bucks an hour damn that's
popular look at these people i just saw
the act of generosity and kindness this
family wanted to take a river boat tour
and these girls she asked if she can
join them and they said yes how cool is
that i like when people are kind to each
other
[Music]
another thing that changed recently is
the way how russian people spend their
vacation
june july and august are the hottest
time for russian people to go abroad and
to spend some time
with family and a very popular most
likely the most popular way to spend
this vacation was going to turkey
thailand and countries like that to have
a hotel vacation basically have an older
music hotel and staying there from 7 to
14 days i guess people from your country
also have such destinations just
different countries so the things that
changed recently is the increase in
prices for nearly everything and right
now it became like really really
expensive for an average russian person
to go and become a vocation abroad you
might hear that russian ruble rate was
increasing recently and in theory it
should be better for an average russian
to afford anything abroad but
realistically it's not because first
it's really hard to get a foreign cash
or foreign currency inside the country
right now and second russian money
russian salaries did not grow
at all that's the prices for nearly
everything since we're growing instead
of our income so an average person once
again somebody from um normal typical
family does not have that much
opportunity to go spend time abroad like
people used to
do before
there's some music behind us so right
now russia is experiencing something
like inside country travel boom when
people are exploring their own country
which was not that popular just a few
years ago but getting popular this year
and actually i see it as a good thing
for russia because travel industry in my
country is underdeveloped there are a
lot of beautiful natural so cool places
to explore but it's not convenient to go
there perhaps in a couple of years it
might be changed to better side these
people are actually doing exactly what i
explained to you they are exploring
russia from the inside instead of going
abroad it's actually quite nice i like
that tower and i'm actually showing my
mom around today taking you with us
where is my mom she's somewhere around
here
oh there's my mom like and subscribe
[Music]
and here you might say hey nikki you're
talking about vacations but what about
the events that happen in ukraine like
are russian people aware what's going on
are there any protests around the
country or anything like that so i would
say that in july in june even in may
people started to talk much less about
what's happening there in ukraine inside
russia and also around the world and i
think this data from google says enough
about that so inside russia i haven't
heard about any huge protest across the
country like within last three months
perhaps there are some people who show
some level of protest but honestly i
haven't seen anything big happening in
the news although talking about daily
life level every single day when i go to
city center to st petersburg
downtown i see some tiny some little
things that still reminds there are
people who do not like the current state
of events for example a few days ago i
met my adorable russian club team and we
had a coffee and a conversation about
the stuff
and right next to our place i saw a
green ribbon staying there for like
perhaps for quite a long time and the
green ribbon is something like a tiny
symbol of people who are against the war
every single day when i go from my home
to subway station i see some signs
written no to war or translated
something like that and still you can
see a lot of these tiny things around
the city perhaps not only petersburg but
in other places across russia but that
doesn't change anything right and if you
ask hey nikki what do people in russia
talk nowadays if not the events of the
war well people started to talk about
the possibility of global change around
the world talk a lot about the place of
russia on the global scene in the global
scale and my guess that people started
to talk about that more recently because
they kind of tasted the difference in
economical situation since late april
and early may the russian ruble exchange
rate was growing was getting stronger to
american dollars and that time we could
not get anything
using this good exchange rate but
recently we could use a website
aliexpress which is like amazon but from
china where you can purchase goods made
in china directly shipped from there so
people had an opportunity to actually
buy stuff
buy
any kind of products using the new
exchange rate and perhaps that somehow
needed
to
have new conversations on
that russian economic is actually
getting better than before
[Applause]
in the city of wilbur there are a lot of
interesting old style buildings just
like this one i find funny is that you
can see really beautiful front side of
the building and then you turn your eye
into the lake into the backyard and it
looks just like this there is such a
freaking situation in russia not only
about residential areas but also for
every kind of like aspect of life
and here behind me another interesting
thing that i just discovered in weeburg
this building is officially the oldest
habitable building in russia i'm not
sure if that was actually built in
russia i mean in the historical time
when this land was maybe swedish or
maybe finnish or maybe russian i have no
idea but right now in russia that is
literally the oldest building where
people live their life and i guess
people who stay here are not really
happy to see all the tourists getting
around so somebody really lives here and
i guess that somebody who is living in
this building is not really happy to see
a lot of tourists like these guys
so here is the entire building and i'm
actually not sure if these two buildings
two parts of one building were built at
the same time that one looks like the
very very old one the original creature
and most likely this part of the
building was like built sometime after
although it's also pretty pretty old
what surprises missing was that our
building stays right behind relatively
new residential building and also right
behind
this old destroyed building it's just
abandoned i'm not sure if we can have a
look what's inside
can you see anything guys
right next to the abandoned building
here is an area
that might be quite popular among local
high school students or local drunkards
somebody comes here to drink and sit at
really strange army looking like box
here are two more things that i want to
show you about this building the first
one is the stream basically somebody who
washes the clothes in these buildings
they can hang it over here and the
second one
is this cup with mr medvedev that's a
former president of russia and it says
denis
dingami that literally means you can
give a birthday baby without money but
better if you have stuff so another
amazing thing that i observe in russia
is connected to swedish company ikea
ikea was the biggest literally the
biggest company in russia that produced
home furniture and many other stuff that
russian people basically loved because
it was literally the best alternative if
you talk about the price efficiency and
the quality of the stuff unfortunately
ikea decided to leave russia back in
march and for the next three or four
months starting from march they were
paying salaries to all the employees and
finally just about a month ago they
finally decided to close everything they
have in russia they decided to sell
everything that they have in stock and
basically leave just a few weeks ago we
received news about the final sale of
ikea and many people were kind of
excited about it because once again it
was the best thing the best possible
option for getting let's say a sofa into
your living room or some kitchenware to
your kitchen a few days ago on the day
of final sale the website was basically
broken because so many people were
trying to get some stuff from ikea and i
think even right now the website doesn't
work for sale apparently there was so
much interest in buying ikea stuff that
the website was maybe broken or
something like that and nobody can get
anything literally
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
is
be
i don't know why i did it
before i mentioned that many russian
people started to travel inside the
country and i'm going to do that too
lisa and i are going to have a trip
around caucasia around kafka and
basically go to the mountains hike
around and make some videos for you and
i wonder if that's actually going to be
interesting for you or not to see a
different part of russia which is
completely different from saint
petersburg from moscow and also see
different kind of culture different kind
of life i think that might be interested
comment if you actually would like to
see that we just arrived to saint
vidisburg city the finlandski railway
station and i want you to just spend
some time to check out these two trains
that's so cool that's the train that we
were taking from webrook the saint
petersburg really modern electric train
that we call lastica a name of one bird
and that old style train is basically
the same idea as sub urban train that we
call electricity this is electricity
that is electricity both of them are
sub-urban trains but
that's a new one and that's the old
style one
well i have the last personal update to
you soon i'm going to visit georgia
after traveling to caucasian mountains
and i wonder if any of you if any of my
subscribers are staying in georgia
because if so you might have a really
cool offline meet up in belize the
capital of georgia just comment if you
stay in felicity and we can make it
happen thank you so much for watching
this video spiciba and pakka