Russia and Russian people are
experiencing unprecedented events like
violent protests that we did not see not
during the valley protests not during
the anti-war protests and the
possibility of having a new Iron Curtain
hello hello Soviet Union welcome back
for Russian people who are eligible for
these partial mobilization that's what
we are going to talk today hey guys
Nicki the editor is here I recorded this
video two days ago and since that time
many things changed and I thought not
posting this video at all and then I
realized that actually that will be very
interesting to share this video recorded
two days ago with some commentary from
today because the things that we are
going to discuss today and the protests
and the travel bans they have some kind
of progression and what I say two days
ago is just the beginning of the things
that I'm observing right now so in this
video You're Gonna See Nikki from two
days ago and Nikki from the day when I'm
posting this video so yeah hit that
subscribe button and let's get started
protests in Russia are getting more and
more serious on September 21st there
were quite massive protests in major
cities across Russia
[Applause]
500 people were detained in St
Petersburg 500 in Moscow and a few
hundred more across the entire country
but right now the situation is changing
the protests are still going on but the
location is actually different some
things that we never experienced in
Russia before as you know there are a
lot of republics in Russian Federation
and right now the hottest the biggest
protest is happening in one of these
republics the Republic of Dagestan
Dagestan is a big Republic in Russia
they have more than 3 million people
living there and apparently these people
are super not happy to see what's going
on there with mobilization so the reason
is the Republic of Dagestan together
with the Republic of buriatia far far in
the Far East of Russia these two places
have the most amount of people of
soldiers died in Ukraine I mean Russian
government doesn't not give us a
specific number of people who died there
in Ukraine but we surely have some
number provided by our government and we
also have information where those people
were from and apparently a lot of these
people were from Dagestan many women
from Dagestan lost their husbands
boyfriends Brothers just friends and
they are protesting right now in a very
very hard way
foreign
yeah
when I see videos from their protests I
cannot believe that it's actually
happening here in Russia simply because
people they're acting so much different
from what I've personally seen in Moscow
and in Saint Petersburg during the last
couple of years then here what you
should know about protests in Russia
maybe you wonder like why Russian people
do not protest in a very aggressive
manner why they don't I don't know bring
any weapons the reason is simple if you
do any kind of aggressive stuff towards
property from the government or
especially towards police troops you're
basically [ __ ] up like really [ __ ]
up in the protests that I personally saw
myself like two years ago half a year
ago a few days ago in Saint Petersburg
people were basically walking the street
and shouting know the war and doing
nothing else and even like this the
police troops were acting super
aggressively to the protesters so yeah
as you can see the Protestant Pakistan
go entirely different way and I have no
idea where it's actually leading
Dagestan and people there in the near
future I am really interested to see
what's gonna happen there next so here I
am to say what exactly happened to these
brothers two day later and nothing
really happened people in Pakistan
spontaneously went to the streets it was
unplanned so police was not ready for
the first hours so people got chance to
basically show what they think about all
this stuff but then a lot of police
gathered at the place more than 100
people were arrested and after that
there was a second day of protesting in
Dagestan and several places a crowd of
people blocked Federal Highway a huge
Road basically not lighting cars passed
through and the police shoot into the
air basically trying to make people
scared and trying to make people like go
away from that place then we had the
head of the region saying some words
about these protests basically saying
that it was all organized by the west
and people were basically paid to do
that there is such a typical thing for
Russia to hear from the officials and
also from people who support the
government that any kind of protest
happening out there is all organized and
all paid by the West so overall nothing
really changed after those protests
another thing that I want to share about
these protests across the entire country
we have news an app updates of Russian
people who are literally using mold of
cocktails and trying to burn vein kamate
Army Recruitment offices most of these
actions don't do much physically most of
these wine commas are all right right
now but what it really does it shows us
that people across the entire country in
like so many different places not only
dislike these mobilization stuff but are
ready to take an action and yeah most of
people who used this mode of cocktails
were found and then detained and
basically they are also quite [ __ ] up
right now and here I wonder are these
protests being broadcasted on Russian TV
appeared in Russian news or not I'm not
going to show you this right today but I
want to give you a tiny announcement I
see that many of you like my videos
about like what Russian State media tell
us about all recent events and I want to
make one more video about that with your
help basically you can email me one
major news that you often see in your
country and you wonder what kind of
stuff does Russian State media tell
about that so send me an email title
news video I'll pick about flight on 7
or 10 of them and try to compare what
stuff do you have there in your country
and what stuff we see here in Russia and
now let's talk about travel bans that
are coming not from foreign countries
but that are coming right from Russian
government to Russian people first time
we started to think about it about a
week ago that time we didn't have news
it was just an idea that someday after
mobilization is announced Russian
government might try to stop people from
leaving but maybe it is happening a
little bit earlier like not in a matter
of months but in the next few days it is
not confirmed by Russian officials yet
and right now while I'm recording this
video it's possible for Russians to
leave country as normally oh well two
days later it's also possible for
Russians to leave Russia as normally
although we have a higher much higher
chance of people who are rejected to
leave country more about it with some
hilarious details from the border by the
end of this video literally anyone can
go to the border and take a flight or
take a car trip all the whole flights
and land checkpoints literally occupied
but what we have right now might be
changed like real quick maybe right
after the referendums will be Ended as
far as I understand the idea behind
these travel bandsaw new Iron Curtain is
simple do not let people who are
qualified for mobilization to leave the
country and who are these people who are
eligible for mobilization like literally
every single person including myself and
here's a simple way to find out if you
are eligible I wanted to save for
monetization on the YouTube but
apparently for mobilization first you
are a man you're older than 18 years old
and you're younger than 50 years old
that's all and yeah that might be
different from what I said in one of my
videos previously about the partial
mobilization in Russia but the thing is
what our president and Minister of
Defense said about this partial
nebulization and what is written in
legal documents and what are army
departments doing right now kind of
different things on September 21st Mr
Putin and Mr shagu told us that they're
looking only for professionals or for
people who have some Army experience or
come about experience but as always the
reality appeared to be different I'm not
going to talk much about hundreds maybe
even thousands of people who were
mobilized recently although they are
students or they are having some health
issues or they are having like three
four five kids there are such people who
should be like not eligible for
mobilization still they have these
letters with calls to Army but anyways
what about the restrictions do we have
any official info on that or not and the
thing is right now we have only two
pieces of official information first we
have commentary from Dmitry piskov who
is a press secretary of our president
let me read what he said about that I
know nothing about that we did not make
any decisions regarding this issue and
guys the moment I read about that I
kinda started to think all right so they
are going to have these restrictions for
sure because it happened so many times
in history of Russia when somebody from
like Russian officials said we are not
doing this thing this thing is certainly
not happening they said so about changes
in Constitution they also stated about
this mobilization literally states that
there is no mobilization happening and
look where we staying right now so
seeing these words from Dimitri piscov
made me think that it's actually going
to happen and second piece of official
news that came out a few hours after
Dmitry biscov's Wars so this news is
about one Russian airport in the city of
jimin so basically this airport
announced flight restrictions for men
who received call to Army letters and
here's what airport employee had to say
on this issue the military department
when kamat provides the Border
Department with lists of citizens who
are restricted from living to cross the
border such categories of citizens need
a special permission to leave from the
military registration and enlistment
office so it kind of started in one
Russian airport already although not
every single person who is eligible for
mobilization will be stopped there only
people who receive this call to Army
letters will not be able to live in
tumian airport which makes me think hey
are they able to from any other airport
or not I guess that's what we are going
to learn very soon so this very soon
happened already and I can say that more
people are getting rejected from leaving
the country although there is no clear
system we have a couple of telegram
channels basically sharing stories of
people who are live in Russia every
single day and they are so different so
basically if there will be two nearly
similar individuals with same age same
Army experience same kind of category
for being mobilized these two people
might have totally different experience
of crossing the border even if they are
passing the same very border more people
more people are getting rejected from
leaving country and more or less all of
them has the same reason of being
rejected so basically custom officers
tell those people that they are unable
to leave country because they are in the
least from Army recruitment office and
for leaving Russia they should go to
that Army recruitment office and to have
a special permission for them and that
is not really working at the moment I
haven't heard about any single
permission to leave from this and Army
Recruitment offices and now if you hilar
various things from Russian border right
now we are having this recruitment
offices showing up right at the border
I've heard news about Russian Georgian
borders the ones that had like very long
lines and people should wait like four
five six days just to get to the Border
checkpoint and right now after waiting
such a long time they not only since the
Border checkpoints they also seeing the
Army recruitment office right at the
checkpoint the same thing is happening
near The Finnish border I read news
yesterday about that that another
Russian Army recruitment office going to
be right there and today I read news
that the same mobile recruitment office
is gonna be next to Kazakhstan border
and even though majority of people still
are able to leave Russian normally more
and more people are getting rejected and
now not only rejected at borders with
Georgia Finland and Sun Kazakhstan but
also they will be able like to receive
the call to Army letters straight edge
the Border how hilarious it is so yeah
overall this is a weird video of me
talking like two days ago to the camera
and talking to you right now thank you
for staying with me spasiba and Paca