this video is all about how all recent
sanctions affect the life of regular
russian people in terms of going to a
shopping mall we have heard a lot of
companies have left russia but how does
it look in daily life this is my local
shopping mall everapotis in saint
petersburg city russia and i haven't
been there since last week and i wonder
if that looks any different from that
time let's go find out
once you get indoors you feel like
nothing is going on a lot of people are
around
the stores are opened like this riv gosh
or calcidonia
this starbucks is still working here and
basically this area is all for starbucks
and such kind of brands like locating
how do you pronounce it it's working too
i think it's important to mention that
i'm going to this shop in the mall and
showing you around just a week after we
started to have first messages from
brands of them leaving russia so perhaps
in one week or maybe in two weeks more
of these stores that i actually still
opened
might be closed once you get deeper into
the mall you see that some stores are
closed like this massimo duty is the
first store that i've seen being closed
here a shout out to ricardo your
favorite brand is not available for
russian snow right next to massimo duty
here is oyster store apparently it's
closed and not available right now and
right in front of it we have zara home
and next to it just zara store all
closed that's a very weird experience of
getting to a mall and seeing that
stores that you used to see and used to
go in your daily life being closed and
basically people have less opportunity
to get the stuff that they used to have
talking about this i actually read quite
nice words from a represent
representative that's a hard word from a
representative of uniqlo that man says
that closing is actually such kind of a
basic need that all people no matter
their nationality should have access for
so basically they do not close the
stores of uniqlo in russia which i'm
quite happy about because uniqlo is one
of my favorite brands here in russia
another store that is still open is
actually prisma supermarket finnish
brand i read news about them leaving
russian market but apparently they are
still working now and i'm actually going
to shop for my groceries here after
recording this video as you can see it
still works now but there is a real
possibility of us losing this wonderful
supermarket i really like coming here
for getting some imported stuff it's
really nice delicious and sometimes you
can find really good deals at this place
i actually made a video talking about
this supermarket showing what you can
get here for 5 000 russian rubles which
is the biggest russian banknote watch
that video later if you haven't seen it
yet this side of the first floor seem to
be not really affected by sanctions like
have no idea what kind of brand it is
gary weber but it still remains open
this armani exchange still opened and
basically every single store on this
side seems to be available for people
now calvin klein jeans timberland tommy
hilfiger i have no idea how to pronounce
it correctly lacoste
samsonite and interesting find it here
uh restore our official apple reseller
they still work but i think there are so
many things are actually in stock and
soon this store might have like not many
things to sell to people i just got
inside of the restore to ask if they
have anything in stock and i actually
wanted to buy a new ipad mini and i was
monitoring the price
since the last week and the change is so
huge right now they do not have any ipad
minis in stock they only have ipad pros
and air the price of ipad mini uh was
about 53 000
uh a week or two weeks ago and now
that's more than seventy thousand
troubles so you can see that the price
actually went up more than forty percent
which is crazy and if you think it's not
a big deal to have our prices up for
like thirty forty fifty percent regular
russian people i am sure they will not
get their salaries increased for this 30
50
so basically for a normal russian person
it will be much harder to buy things
than before and here i'm talking not
only about tech like apple iphones ipads
of course that's not the most necessary
things but i'm also talking about
grocery stuff and daily life clothes by
the way i was staying right here right
next to the closed h m
and now going into the second floor the
thing is h m is quite beloved brand in
russia especially for young people i
found the note from h damage says
dear customers all stores and our
website temporarily closed starting from
the 3rd of march of course even without
foreign brands will be still able to
find nice clothes like this b3 is a
russian brand and they have
okay kind of clothes which is very
similar to h in them but obviously
without access to the companies that we
used to see here in russia it will be
less comfortable and less convenient
here nick the editor is here i just want
to add that we are also losing access to
lots of digital products like i can no
longer pay for my photoshop so i switch
to a free version of canva patreon still
works well for the nations but paypal
doesn't let any transactions come to my
account so i created a bitcoin and
ethereum wallet for the nations tick
tock banned the entire population of
russia from posting and going live so i
basically lost access to people who wait
my videos there it's even possible that
we lose access to youtube and instagram
in russia so i created a backup telegram
channel go find me there and if anything
happens to youtube i'll keep posting
there well let's get back to your
reporters small some stores like
strativarius maybe decided to quit
russian market very fast and some stores
like echo
it still opened but i have no idea if
they will remain open next week or a
week after that we'll see poland bear is
closed here as well as birshka and
russian brands like snes nakaralieva or
terra nova perhaps having a higher
revenue these days now we are on the
third floor with lots of sport wear with
adidas still working and let's see if we
have any i don't know nike
or reebok or puma still open to people
and then we'll go to cinema and actually
check if we have any foreign cinemas
because i also heard that disney warner
brothers and some other media companies
left russia and we have no opportunity
to watch let's say movies like batman
legally so if we really don't have that
in cinemas more people most likely will
just go pirating it online
which is which is a typical thing in
russia by the way new balance is opened
reebok is opened and i think i cannot
find a nike store at this mall perhaps
they didn't have nike here over here is
a huge russian sports store where you
will find any kind of foreign brands
like if you want to have
puma shoes that is closed now as an
individual store you anyways can find it
here the question is for how long
because most likely sport master that's
the name of this store will not have
access to
uh getting new shoes once their stock is
empty right next to it here is mirage
cinema i sometimes go to this cinema
it's actually quite nice and next to it
is a food court with lots of fast food
stuff you can see that mcdonald's works
well and a lot of people are actually
going there
tirimok is a russian fast food stuff i
actually made a video about that and
that's quite nice kfc carl jr burger
king all working here the only place
that is closed here on the food court is
fire walk cafe but i think it's not
because of the sanctions most likely
they just closed
their business by the way interesting
thing about this food court and
basically uh coronavirus regulations in
russia a week ago two weeks ago it was
not possible to go on the food court
freely you have to wait in line and wait
until somebody will check your qr code
of vaccination and basically you can go
to public places only if you're
vaccinated but now such kind of
regulations are cancelled and every
single person might enter the shopping
mall
the food court and basically any other
place around the city now let's go to
the cinema and see if we have any
foreign movies going here right today i
think it will be actually easier to use
such kind of machine
and here we do have like 10 or 12 movies
and some of them like some of them are
foreign like they smeared nanili or
uncharted and some of them are actually
old movies like this mr nobody with
jared leto i quite like this movie and
it's nice that we can see it in russian
cinema again
but why do they have it in 2022
dom gucci which is actually a movie that
we could watch like a month two months
ago
spider-man and also movies that we
called seal like really long time ago
and they still have it here
in march 2022. i'm not sure what exactly
should be in russian cinemas in march
2022 but apparently there are some
movies that we just cannot see cannot
watch here i think that will be really
fair to say that russian people got used
to see a lot of foreign stuff a lot of
foreign goods uh in their daily life so
do i and it will be really inconvenient
to lose access to some of the stuff i'm
going to grocery shop at prisma
supermarket because i have no idea if
i'll be able to do that tomorrow or the
day after tomorrow thank you for
watching this video and if you want to
see more stuff about russia watch this