what do ordinary people in Russia think
about mobilization and is anybody
protesting against that or what that's
what we are going to talk about in
today's video hi my name is Nikki I live
in Saint Petersburg City in a few days
Russia started mobilization partial
mobilization during that day I thought
it would be interesting to ask local
people what do they think about it so I
got a couple of Street interviews today
also September 21st I thought there
might be interesting to go to the
downtown and see if there's any protest
Gathering the city and to live stream it
for you apparently it happened
and today I want to talk a bit more
about that as well basically share how
the protest felt hello
how I experienced that and basically
what was the difference between seeing a
protest this time compared to what we
have back in February and March earlier
this year there's really a lot of people
around me and there's also a lot of
police troops even kilometers away from
the protesting site
and before we get started guys I want to
ask you to subscribe to my channel
especially if you're returning to watch
my videos again and again and have not
subscribed yet thank you honestly guys I
think we are kind of back in time to
February 2022 like seven months ago
every single person at least around me
was closely following what is happening
what is going on checking the news
hearing such conversations from
strangers on the streets when I just
passed by it was like that back in
February then let's say in April and May
in August people of course were kind of
discussing what's going on between
Russia and Ukraine but that was surely
not that super big everyone discussed
topic and today we are back to the time
again when everybody is discussing the
same thing partial mobilization in
Russia and believe me people are not
happy about that uh
all right
so I was there in the city observing and
live streaming and time mobilization
protest in Saint Petersburg and from
what I saw that was not as massive as
anti-war protests that took place by the
end of February beginning of March I
think one number can illustrate the
amount of people who went to the streets
protest quite well that's more than 1
300 people who were detained during this
protest across all cities in Russia only
in Saint Petersburg there were like more
than 200 people detained I personally
saw just a few of them like from afar
you see a lot of police cars not police
policemen in that white car so basically
a lot of police coming here
following the people they are
just
running behind me trying to escape and
what interesting thing about this
protest one popular Russian joke became
true we had kind of joke in Russian
internet about if you go to a protest
and police detains you then you will
find out yourself
um in Ukraine well that's not a joke
anymore because there really were people
who got special I don't know
mobilization letter or something like
that right after they were detained from
the protest I heard such news from the
city of Moscow and I'm going to talk
more about this mobilization letters a
bit later what I want to share now is
the kind of atmosphere that I observe
during the protest here in Saint
Petersburg and what I felt there was
really feeling of discomfort perhaps I
felt that because there were like not so
many people going to protest overall
compared to before and every single
individual got much more attention from
other people and also from authorities
and maybe perhaps I got depth right
during live streaming from a random
waiter who was shouting to me exactly
the same sentence for twice these tiny
little details of this partial
mobilization
which means speak Russian you speak
Russian so right now I have a nice
recording of myself getting slapped on
face and that recording was seen by like
I don't know millions of people around
the world which is I don't know a little
bit weird so here are a few dry facts
about protests in Russia here in Saint
Petersburg on September 21st thousands
of people went to the streets hundreds
of people were detained and police was
quite strictly aggressive I don't know
how to describe it so overall I had this
kind of not very safe and also
uncomfortable feeling being there around
the protest and here I specifically want
to mention that every single time when I
go live streaming and showing you guys
the protest or something like that on
the streets I do not join such
activities I do not actively shout
anything I I just stay aside from the
crowd basically because I don't want to
give authorities any reason to get
myself involved and persecuted for that
so I don't want to give them any reason
for that
information
there is another interesting observation
that I had yesterday so basically
there's a different target audience if I
could use this words to call people who
go to protest so people who went to
protest two years ago to support navalny
people who protested anti-war half a
year ago and people who joined
anti-mobilization protest yesterday they
are not all the same the biggest
difference is that the recent updates
the mobilization news they literally
touch every single family every single
person that lives in Russia not only
people who are being in a position to
our government but literally every
single male person and every single
female person who has I don't know
Brothers husbands boyfriends just male
friends whatever you say yes
foreign
[Music]
so for sure people across the entire
country are deeply touched with all
recent changes
foreign
[Music]
there is a popular website in Russian
web basically like rated for
International Community there's Peekaboo
website in Russia and there's a website
where every single person can share
anything they can share some pictures or
write something whatever it is since
September 20th we had a lot of
discussions on that website people were
talking about hey what is happening with
this mobilization what will happen to us
soon what's going on and since yesterday
people started to share that they are
receiving the mobilization letters so
how it works in Russia basically there
are special Army departments we call
them Wayne kamate vayenne they can send
you a letter you receive a letter and
then you have to go to this oil command
the Army Department then they check in
your body and mind state if you're all
right you're being sent to Army so since
yesterday people across the entire
country were sharing that they received
such kind of vain come out letters a few
people say that they received this
letter since evening and they have to go
to that Army Department in the morning
so so these things are like crazy having
this kind of ajotash a lot of people are
deciding to leave Russia and literally
all tickets are sold out
in the last video I showed you that
there is no available tickets for today
and tomorrow and right now if I search
the same website for any flights from
Saint Petersburg to like anywhere abroad
it will be available after let's say
five six seven days no earlier and this
situation is kinda unique in my opinion
because even in February and in March
when people were deciding to leave
Russia and go let's say to Georgia to
Istanbul or to Europe or to America or
wherever they want to go even like that
it was not all sold out it was possible
to buy a same day or next day ticket
it's not possible today which makes me
think all right maybe I'm not going to
get drafted let's say this week or next
week on this month but someday surely
the full mobilization might happen and
then what are we going to do next like
imagine it might happen exactly in the
same way to be announced in the morning
and then a lot of people will rush out
of Russia once again everything is sold
out and it's impossible to leave ASAP
when I think about what's going to be in
a month or in two months I'm not quite
sure about that so yes there's
definitely things that I should
reconsider you know guys this video
appeared to be quite spontaneous where
you just sit and share my personal
feeling and I don't know experience or
things that I see around myself and once
again I feel like I'm time travel to
seven months ago and things are changing
so fast again so tell me guys if this
video was interesting to you and I'll
know that you want to hear such stuff
from me or not and don't forget to
subscribe to my channel