Western sanctions affected my life in
Russia and basically made it less
convenient but how exactly it affects
life of Russians in today's video I'm
going to explain what exactly changed in
our daily life since February 2022. hi
my name is nikkim I live in Saint
Petersburg City and on this channel I
basically share my daily life in Russia
and sadly but this year we all are
affected by actions of our governments
dramatically I actually think that
actions of my own government affect me
and limit my freedoms more than anything
else but that's a topic for another
video today let's dive into tiny little
interesting details of the sanctions but
first I see there is a lot of new people
finding my videos recently please do me
a favor and hit that subscribe button
with a notification Bell especially if
you return to watch my videos and
haven't subscribed yet thank you man
there's so many things to share talking
about sanctions and changes in life here
but I want to mention one thing that I
read that I learned just this morning
basically it's about freedom of travel a
few weeks ago I received news about
certain lists of European countries who
want to prohibit restrict Russian
tourists from entering their countries
and I first thought it's like like
Russian propaganda or fake news because
the concept behind this idea is simply
ridiculous to me how could a civilized
and Democratic country want to restrict
somebody from entering their land simply
judging by other person's nationality no
matter who that person is simply stating
that hey that person is coming from that
country and we want to see no one from
that country traveling our land that's
so weird then last week nine European
countries decided to restrict Russians
from traveling their land like basically
declining all tourist visa applications
and the rest of European Union as far as
I understand May made the process of
applying for tourist visa more
complicated like it got more expensive
and you got to wait much longer times
than before once again making these
complications and restrictions only
based on somebody's nationality still
even for a higher price and for longer
waiting time Russian people were able to
get European tourist visas and for
example go to Estonia or to the
Netherlands or to Latvia having a
tourist visa of another European country
until this morning what I read in the
news this morning again made me think
like is that that kind of like stupid
Russian propaganda or fake news but no
the news was real the four European
countries decided to completely shut
down their borders for Russian tourists
even if they have a tourist visa of
other European countries basically
Schengen visa so right now I and any
other Russian people are not able to go
and travel to Estonia to Poland to
Lithuania and Latvia of course there is
still some way to go to these countries
for Russians but you have to have like
something more serious than desire to
explore the country and to get into
their culture and to try their delicious
Cuisine and so whatever and such news
leaded to really interesting and funny
reaction from Russian officials like
Vladimir chisholov who is a Russian
Diplomat in European Union commented in
this way we will not mirror that
decision we will keep being a country
that is committed to democracy the
freedom of travel we are open for people
who want to visit Russia and see how
Russians really live and what's going on
in Russia and the thing is here Russia
right now is open to foreigners I
personally meet a few Europeans who are
visiting Saint Petersburg last week and
these restrictions are honestly
ridiculous guys I actually wonder what
do you think about such kind of
restrictions to freedom of travel just
based on somebody's nationality for me
it sounds like a crazy thing but maybe I
am not right go explain in the comments
another little things that touched
basically every single person in Russia
and local people and foreigners could
travel Russia in the blocking of
Internet interesting things that such
restrictions come not only from the
Russian side not only from the Russian
government that blocks a lot a lot of
websites but also from the west from
foreign companies so a few examples for
you because of Russian government I
cannot get access to Instagram and
Facebook they blocked it but at the same
time I cannot get access to services
like canva and Pitch which I frequently
used before because of policies of those
companies apparently they don't want to
have any Russian customers anymore and
there are thousands and thousands
websites and platforms that are blocked
and from Russian side and from foreign
side but of course people in Russia want
to use services that are blocked for
them and here comes a simple solution
Russian people learned how to use a VPN
and this is the perfect time for a quick
word from today's video sponsor private
internet access what can I say guys now
in the year 2022 using a VPN is absolute
necessity for me and with 30 million
downloads private internet access is the
world's most transparent VPN provider it
can change my IP address and encrypt my
online presence so my internet activity
is hidden from the internet service
provider and any other unwanted watchful
eyes it also allows me to check my
emails because yes even my email
provider is blocked here in Russia
private internet access comes with some
extra benefits as well this VPN is
compatible with all major streaming
services and it helps you avoid jail
restrictions in one click you are ready
to access more content than ever before
be it Russia related or not and since
private internet access uses world-class
server infrastructure in 83 different
countries and all 50 US states there are
a ton of different servers to hop on
private internet access can also block
ads trackers and malicious websites it's
available for all platforms and really
cool things that one subscription can
protect 10 devices at the same time so
get private internet access is my link
in the description and get impressive 82
discount that's only 2.11 cents a month
and he also get 3 extra months
completely for free and since you have
30 day money back guarantee and 24 7
customer support everything is risk-free
for you so guys use my link to get
started and thanks to private internet
access for sponsoring this video
I've got some props to illustrate you
another point the effect of sanctions
but I think this one is rather familiar
to you especially the people who live in
European countries and in America have
heard that prices for groceries and gas
and stuff is increasing and it's not
unique to Russia but anyways simply to
illustrate how it's happening in Russia
this is the eggs that I used to get for
myself before a funny thing that in
Russia we have 10 packs of eggs like not
12 not a dozen but one is broken so I
technically have a nine pack anyways
back in January 2022 I could buy this
bag of eggs like the ones that I
typically get for myself for 73 74
rubles it's like exactly one American
dollar by that time and right now on
exactly same thing cost 120 rubles or
exactly two American dollars again at
today's exchange rate such a huge
difference I already talked a lot of
times about prices differences in Russia
and the main idea is the prices yes it
went up the income of people stay it's
the same level so basically it's harder
to afford the same level of life as
before but last couple of months got us
some kind of stability in terms of
prices Russian Ruble to USD to American
dollar rate was kind of the same all the
time since June or July and since that
time I see the prices actually going
down to more or less the same level as
before but not on every stuff for
example Tech products are super
expensive now compared to before
especially if you count it in American
dollars but still on a daily life level
economic sanctions from the West got
some huge influence on ordinary people's
shopping list but it's getting a little
bit better recently and last but surely
not the least thin perhaps the most rage
generating thing for you not for
Russians it's the news about
International companies who say it back
in March something like we are leaving
Russian business completely we are
leaving Russian Market we are not doing
any business with Russians and many
companies actually did what they said
and right now it's kind of complicated
to get their product looks in Russia I'm
not saying impossible just a little bit
complicated or you have to wait longer
time or you have to pay higher price
usually even these two things combined
but we also have huge International
companies who first were saying like we
live in Russia but right now they are
kind of coming back to our Market some
of them silently some of them like
without hiding it at all and no I'm not
talking about McDonald's or Starbucks
yes we have good restaurants instead of
McDonald's and stars coffee instead of
Starbucks but as far as I understand
they don't have any relation to a
regional McDonald's and Starbucks the
new companies owned by Russian companies
and I believe all income States in
Russia without going to original
McDonald's or Starbucks whatever I have
two different examples for you one is
Japanese company named Panasonic that
sells various kind of tech products and
second is h m that is widely popular in
Russia back in March and Panasonic and H
M say some slaves I live in Russian
market like completely for sure or and
right now what I see is h m store being
open in Moscow and as far as I know
there's gonna be also a new collection
like a new clothes collection from from
them coming soon to Russia as for
Panasonic and Tech products it's even
more interesting because right now
Panasonic is kinda not doing business
with Russia although there is an online
store that is working this very moment
and I can buy their stuff officially
imported from Japan the website and the
company is called E Plaza and as the
website States is the official company
that distributes official production of
Panasonic from Japan and of course as
you can expect this e-plaza is owned and
created by one of the top managers of
old Panasonic Russia as stated on the
website right now they are selling
officially imported stuff from Panasonic
company but don't worry they will not
stop doing business once the uh
purchased before War stock is over you
know because Russian Ministry of
industry and trade created something
called parallel input what it means is
that Russian company can legally import
a certain list of products from other
countries without having manufacturers
or Brands consent so for example if
apple does not want to send any new
iPhones to Russia it will be a subject
to parallel import it's actually not a
new thing for Russian economy but
perhaps it's coming for a really big
scale but first time we headed back in
like 2014 2015 when we got first
sanctions from the West that time we
lost opportunity to get some foreign
produced Goods but Russian companies
continued getting them inside Russia
just using third-party companies or
countries a real quick summary I believe
if I go outdoors and ask just a random
Russian simple question how do sanctions
affect your life most likely they'll say
something like well it's kinda
inconvenient but it's survivable I hope
you learned something new from watching
this video and if you want to watch more
stuff from Russia check out this video
and Paca