did you ever think what does Russian
news say about the war in Ukraine about
the protests happening inside Russia or
maybe about Mr zelinski I'm sure that's
pretty different from what you have seen
in your local news but what exactly do
Russian people see on their TV in this
video we will find out hi my name is
Nikki on this channel I start in this
series what does Russian State media
tell us about and last week I asked my
viewers what kind of news they want to
see from Russian perspective and I
picked five topics for this video
leaving two other major news for the
next episode so be sure to subscribe to
my channel if you find this video
interesting to watch and let's get
started with something light a comic
news about referendum for Russians to
join the Netherlands and if you don't
know what I'm talking about like what
the heck referendum for all Russians to
join Holland then no worries you are not
alone because there is no single word in
Russian news related to this topic
basically this idea comes from Dutch TV
show introduced by their local comic he
says that if Russian president organizes
referendums in a country where he has no
territorial claims then he technically
can organize the same thing for Russian
people which he did in his comic show
introduced in a really funny
well-designed video and that video went
viral internationally and then I started
to think like is there anything being
said about this thing about this comic
referendum in Russian news and hear what
I found out like I'm using this website
of Russian Pierre Canal for his Channel
with his really huge library of 650 000
news if I write anything about like the
Netherlands new zealande in Russian
language I'll find quite a lot of news
but nothing about this funny event like
I didn't really expect Russian State
media covering this kind of funny news
but that will be really interesting to
see now let's jump to another piece of
news that hardly appears in Russian
media and I'm talking about protests
happening inside Russia same website of
Russia first channel here I type
broadcast which is protest in Russian
and I pick the time duration from
February 24th to the day of recording
this video what I found is 93 results of
video news about protest but interesting
things that there is no real news on
protest happening in Russia remember
there's like long time ago February 24th
25th and also beginning of March when we
had anti-war protests in Russia well
here it is literally no news on that
time period the first news about protest
coming from March 16th and I think that
is really interesting representation
what is happening like inside Russian
media because there are a lot of videos
on protests in Europe according to first
channel in Russia many people in Europe
protest because of poor economical
conditions of their countries and also
because of current energy crisis for
example check out this news it comes
from October the 2nd and says in Europe
people massively protest because of
inflation and come in Winter let's see
how this lady introduces this news to
Russian people
hunger cold and humiliation it seems
this is how Europeans perceive the
actions of their authorities massive
Street protests almost all over Europe
people are tired of paying fabulous sums
of money for utilities and food and they
demand higher wages but so far only
prices in stores and mortgages rates are
rising inflation overseas beats all the
records for several decades as well the
American dream is getting more and more
unattainable and it will be getting even
more difficult because see winter is
coming well I don't see anything wrong
with covering this news there indeed
might be people who protest in because
of this stuff or inflation maybe some
energy crisis but the real suspicious
thing is that they are covering this
protest across let's say Europe and
America but there is no single word on
what is happening there in Russia and
when I think about that I have a simple
picture in my mind my granny who lives
in the city of Omsk that's a large city
in Siberian part of Russia she can turn
on the TV and watch such kind of news
and things that life in Europe life in
America is super bad but things happen
there and at the same time she does not
see anything negative news about Russia
and she might think that everything is
all right in our country like there is
no protest happening in Russia not at
all in the mobilization the process is
going all right and so on and here I
want to introduce you another YouTube
channel coming from Russia Zoomers I'm
giving him a shout out because he
basically does the same thing as I do on
my channel providing you interesting
Insight details on what's happening in
Russia hey that's right I'm a refugee
from the Russian speaking YouTube my
main channel is a little about 1 million
subscribers and what is that if not an
indicator of the quality of content and
you may probably ask why the hell am I
in the woods just hiding from
mobilization and let me show you some
headlights from my recent videos for
example in this video Russia is [ __ ]
in the first person like an eyewitness I
have told you about why Russia was going
to lose anyway gains a war against
Ukraine how Russians are brainwashed how
the propaganda machine works and how is
its healthy history is Rewritten he
recently uploaded a video about
mobilization in Russia and what do
people do to avoid getting mobilized
very interesting stuff what is that
video and please show my fellow YouTuber
some love link will be down below in the
description box thank you by the way
that's the next topic of our video the
process of mobilization and believe me
there's plenty of news on mobilization
inside Russia basically every single
media in Russia explains stuff about
mobilization it says how the process is
going but let's see what exactly being
said on mobilization on Russian TV
searching news about mobilization only
for this month I see 131 results which
is actually more than amount of news we
had about protests since the beginning
of this year so that's definitely a Hot
Topic in Russian media I may be ready to
listen intro music people from so many
different countries say they have
exactly same music in their local news
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hello it's news time on first channel we
will tell you the most important events
right now more than 200 000 people have
already arrived to the Armed Forces as
part of partial mobilization said
Minister of Defense Sergey shagu he
emphasized that military personnel
should be sent to combat areas only
after training and combat coordination
all conditions have been created for
this trainings are held at training
bases under the guidance of experienced
instructors they work out every detail
bringing everything to automatism
to this day more than 200 000 people
have arrived to the Armed Forces I
instructed to provide everyone with the
necessary sets of clothes and other
equipment oh my that is basically the
main narrative and Russian news about
mobilization so what Russian people hear
is everything is going according to the
plan everything is fine with mobilized
people we are providing them all the
stuff that they need for basically
serving the country and that is actually
quite far away from the real situation
we do have messages across the entire
country that people who get mobilized
they do not have enough stuff for their
service so what we see outside the media
is that our government is not able to
supply our mobilized people as well as
they are stating in the news
[Music]
just a few days ago I found out that
there are hundreds or maybe even
thousands of telegram groups these
groups are mostly women who have some
kind of relation to mobilized people
with their wives or sisters or friends
whoever they are and they are helping
their men to have all necessary supplies
starting from like many commands
starting from clothes food and Indian by
such little things as sponge or socks or
anything like underwear which is
definitely should be supplied by our
government once I found such kind of
groups I joined one from my hometown the
city of ohms and I saw 17 000 people who
were somehow organized in this applied
to their mobilized man as I understand
people in this group are fully aware
that our government is not able to
supply all the necessary stuff to
soldiers so these people are doing their
best to find all necessary supplies by
themselves so that's how it looks like
this is a group from City of Omsk and of
course they do have Z as their profile
picture and they have a lot of messages
asking for donations and also sharing
what exactly they bought for this sum of
money for example here they bought 2 000
pairs of socks this amount of gloves and
this amount of hats this amount of
mattresses so you get the idea the main
narrative in Russian State media is that
Russia is doing everything for people
who have been mobilized they are
supplying them everything that is
necessary and at the same time there's
like hundreds of such groups of support
across the entire country to buy stuff
for mobilized people well and what about
the news from the front line basically
we had a lot of things happening in
Ukraine a few weeks ago we had news
about in zoom and balaclia and right now
we are having news about Lehman is there
any information in Russian State media
related to like recent Ukrainian
counter-offensive or anything about
Limon let's find out so I searched the
front line and here's the result for all
the time let's narrow it down to one
month we have exactly 13 News related to
the front line opening the most recent
report from October the 2nd 12 o'clock
[Music]
foreign
on the front line I mean nothing about
the recent changes maybe it's only news
reports from October the second let's
let's give a try to another searched
word maybe not Frontline but liman and
yeah we have a news report from October
the 1st and basically what it says is
let's translate it to English a light
troops withdrew from Limon for more
favorable borders due to the threat of
encirclement
our military Department told us how the
special military operation is going
today details in the material of
Alexander aliakin
three
[Music]
because of possible threat of
encirclement the Allied troops were
withdrawn from the settlement of
krasniliman to more advantages positions
so as I understand the main rate of this
news about liman and all recent changes
on the front line is that Russian army
is doing well they fighting Ukrainian
nationalists well but they have to
regroup the troops to find a better
position because of this threat of
encirclement so that's exactly the same
narrative as they had talking about in
zoom and balaclare a few weeks ago a
very interesting detail is that in such
news Russian TV provides a lot of
details on what kind of equipment does
Russian army use and how exactly they
using it and so on and so on I have no
idea why they're doing it maybe they
think that people that watch TV they're
getting proud to know what kind of stuff
does the Army uses I don't know let's
move to the next topic of this video the
image of Ukrainian president Mr zelenski
in Russian TV and we had a lot of news
reports about Ukrainian presidents
basically every single step every single
move of Mr zelenski since the beginning
of the war is being observed by Russian
media and after watching and reading
some news on zelensky I have an
impression that Russian media are
watching for any little detail any
little thing to make fun of Ukrainian
president there are like 167 news about
zelenski since the beginning of the war
and let's open to the most recent ones
as the resilinsky will change his
position or we will wait for another
president of Ukraine this is how the
Press Secretary of the Russian leader
Dmitry piskov reacted to keep's refusal
to dialogue earlier Vladimir zielinski
enforced the decisions of the National
Security Council of Ukraine on the
impossibility of holding negotiations
with Vladimir Putin and here's the
answer from Moscow it takes two parties
to negotiate and you know that from the
very beginning of the military operation
the Russian site was in favor of
ensuring that the conditions put forward
by the Russian side were achieved
through a peaceful diplomatic means and
negotiations we will now wait for a
change in the position of the current
president or we will wait for the future
president of Ukraine so basically that
is a mirrored reply to the voice of
zelinski who said a few days ago that
they are going to negotiate with Russia
only if Russia has a different President
sopiskov says exactly the same word but
like the opposite direction
only a few hours passed after the
signing ceremony in Sacramento and the
Ukrainian president was again planning
to join NATO he sent an application for
a faster entry into the military aliens
and as expected he is getting the gate
again Biden's National Security adviser
Jake Sullivan was brief and blunt now he
said it's not the best time the fact
that there will be no suitable time for
Ukraine's membership in NATO has been
clear to everyone except zielinski for a
long time already this is such a good
example of very subjective and biased
Journeys like this lady when I think
about the news reports I don't want to
hear the subjective opinion of somebody
who is presenting the news I want to
hear basically what is happening and
what is happening and why is that is
happening but it's not what you always
can expect from Russian news reports I
guess so let me summarize I hope you got
a good impression of what does a typical
Russian person sees in the news like
mine grainy or somebody let's say from a
provisional Russian city believe me
there is a big audience in such kind of
TV channels like this Channel first
Canal or any other given Russian State
media on TV what I can surely say that
Russian government and perhaps every
single government around the world is
very very good at picking the news and
presenting it from the angle that is
like most suitable for them anyways I
hope this video was interesting or
insightful for you subscribe to my
channel so you will not miss any future
uploads spaceba and Paca