since we talked last time many things
happened in Russia prisoners recruited
by Wagner group to fight in Ukraine are
now coming back into Russian Society
navalny still stays in prison and we are
still getting updates from him and we
also having a few more rumors about
close borders of Russia that's what we
are going to talk today and also I'm
gonna share a few personal stuff like I
moved to a new country where I'm going
to stay during the next two months but
more about that after the main part
a short story for you this man is Evgeni
pregosian a Russian oligarch slash the
boss of private military company Wagner
group looks like this man came out of
nowhere before this year before 2022 he
was a large figure but mostly like a
businessman right now evgeny precaution
is getting much more political weight in
Russia and one of his ideas that he had
in the middle of 2022 concerns Russian
people a lot nowadays so basically what
he had in his mind is something like hmm
Russia is in the middle of the war with
like with Ukraine and we need more
troops we are not dealing with them well
so how to solve this problem and then
like boom idea he remembers that Russia
has a lot of Prisons across the entire
country a lot of people have like super
long sentences for like 10 20 30 years
straight and have no hope of getting out
of jail supposedly or he or somebody in
Wagner group or somebody in Russian
government who knows decided that these
prisoners might be a good source to use
in this war and we regular people
learned about this initiative in the
middle of September 2022. that time the
entire country saw the video in that
video we saw if Guinea pregosian talking
to a group of prisoners and offering
them to fight for their freedom like
literally to fight for that
we should fight
why not
foreign
we also learned that the middle of
September was actually not the first
time when Wagner group started to
recruit prisoners they supposedly
started it a month or two months before
the September video was leaked to public
and right now six months after the day
when he recruited first prisoners to
fight for him in Ukraine they started to
come back to Russian society which is a
huge concern for regular people
[Music]
and I we had talked about this back in
September we were thinking about should
we like leave Russia no that was before
mobilization news and we were talking
about like some day after some month
these prisoners will come back to Russia
and most likely there will be like
plenty of accidents happening because of
those people we were freaking out about
the possibility of live in a society
with lots of PTSD ex-prisoners around
you and that's what Russian Society
started to talk recent during the last
like couple of weeks of course they
described these prisoners in a very
negative way and of course Wagner group
and pregosian himself are not happy
about this fact so he offered Russian
government to make a new regulation
exactly about the public opinion towards
ex-prisoners here's what he said the
entire country is proud of our Defenders
but there are some media bloggers and
telegram channels that are
discreditingly volunteers these channels
are searching for negative information
about our volunteers including
ex-prisoners and post that information
in the internet therefore making the
Defenders of Russia look like they are
villains or criminals wait a bit but
they are criminals according to their
deeds and according to decisions of
Russian court system and all these
Russian media bloggers and telegram
channels they are not making up facts
they actually delivering their real
stories behind this modern Russian
Heroes and unique is a editor is here
when I was according to this talk in the
afternoon I also added a few personal
stories about the ex-prisoners basically
what they did to get into prison but
then I understood that it's like way too
dark like way too dark so let's just
move to the next point
another thing that I want to share to
you today is the recent story of navani
and if you don't know who this guy is
he's a Russian opposition leader who was
challenging Putin for many years
straight and almost got murdered for
that the story behind that is just crazy
I highly recommend you to watch the
navalny documentary that was produced in
2022 I feel that's important because
Nevada was and actually it still is a
hope for better future of Russia for
millions of people even what I'm
thinking now is the future of my country
does not look that attractive we are
moving away from the beautiful Russia of
tomorrow towards more hideous Russia of
tomorrow but you know that doesn't mean
that they have to give up my hopes about
the better future of Russia as well as
better future of myself and no matter
what is happening on the big scale we
still have to take a good care of
ourselves of our emotional states our
physical state and of course our
financial State it's kinda difficult to
think long term in this economy also
seen all these terrible things happening
around but still I'm looking into the
future which brings me to today's video
sponsor Masterworks Masterworks is a
fintech platform based in New York City
that's changing the way the world
invests they literally make you able to
invest in shares of art like Picasso or
Banksy without spending Millions on the
entire art piece which to be honest is
not tangible for most of us regular guys
they have unlocked a new way to invest
and potentially see returns and
thousands of their investors already
have each of Masterworks 9 sales in 2022
delivered positive returns like their
last three which returned 10 13 and 35
net you can see it all on their website
and learn about art as an investment and
potentially skip the long wait list by
clicking the link below and here I
should say that Masterworks is an
investing tool and as any tool in our
world you got to understand what it is
and how it works before using it I'm
here to tell you about this tool and if
you like the idea of investing in art do
your research responsibly
now let's continue about navalny and
again short story first in August 2020
navalny was poisoned with novichok that
happened during a flight from tomsk to
Moscow fortunately Pilots landed the
plane as the nearest airport and the
doctors took a good care of navalny and
two days later while being in coma he
was evacuated to Germany in January 2021
navadny fully recovered and perhaps made
the boldest decision of his life he
publicly announced that he is going to
come back to Russia trying to make a
difference
to chase him I think without any doubt
you can guess what happens next the
first second he stepped into Russian
land police arrested him and since that
time already more than two years since
that day he basically was jailed we had
massive protests across Russia I was
staying in Moscow that time in January
2021 and I was basically live streaming
in the middle of the protest and also
had quite a few unpleasant conversations
with police the protests didn't do
anything they basically lasted for a few
months and finally the government
handled it so well that anybody who
disagrees decided either to leave Russia
or just remain silent but even though
navalny is still being in prison he
somehow has the connection with the
outer World his team and his supporters
still run in the projects and
occasionally they also post on navalny
social medias like Telegram and
Instagram I don't know how exactly
navalny shares the awards information
with like people outside of prison I
believe he has an opportunity to talk to
his lawyer or maybe have an occasional
phone calls with his family have no idea
about that what Alex say is going
through right now is basically another
murder attempt very slow one this time
he's sick he's definitely having not
enough vitamins he's having not enough
sunlight and basically he doesn't have
any access to good medicine and doctors
and since August 2022nd he's actually
been kept in super strict solitary
confinement that officially could be
used only for 15 days straight he stays
there for like 100 days straight already
just a few days ago navalny supporters
installed a replica of that solitary
cell so my German viewers might
experience what is like being navalny
staying in that cell if you really want
to go see it it's located right across
the street from the Russian Embassy in
Berlin here is how navalny describes his
cell officially it is impossible to keep
a person more than 15 days in solitary
confinement but this rule is easily
bypassed they keep them for 15 days
release people and imprison them again
for another 15 days it looks like this
can concrete kernel 2.5 to 3 meters the
conditions are unbearable there mostly
it's cold and damp water on the floor
but I have a beach option very hot and
almost no air the window is Tiny the
walls are thick so no air goes through
even the spider web does not move at all
there is no ventilation at night you lie
and feel like a fish on the shore an
iron bed is fastened to the wall like on
the train but the lever is located
outside the cell at 5 am they take away
my mattress and pillow and raise my bed
at 9 pm the bed is lowered again and the
mattress is returned iron table iron
bench sink hole in the floor and two
cameras under the ceiling dates are
forbidden letters are forbidden any
things from the outside are forbidden it
is the only place in the prison where
even smoking is prohibited but they give
me paper and pen for 1 hour and 15
minutes each day every day walking for 1
hour in the same room but with a piece
of the sky what can I say while only
still being a prisoner his team and his
supporters are trying to do at least
something to raise awareness around the
world about what is basically happening
in Russia about navalny and all other
political prisoners and they do quite a
few things in this month I already
shared about the replica of Nevada cell
placed in Berlin they also did the
campaign in New York City maybe
somewhere else around the world they are
basically trying to make some noise
about that worldwide and there were some
protests for support of navalny and
other political prisoners of Russia like
the protests were kinda around the
entire world apparently they were also
little protests in Russia during these
days but it was like super little the
Nevada team also organizes kinda
Underground Action inside Russia but
that's not a topic for today's video
it's Nikki the editor once again I want
to add the last thing about navalny
story basically name every single reason
for putting him in that solitary
confinement they are simply hilarious so
he got first seven days in that
confinement for unbuttoning his top
button of his prison rope which was too
small for him another five days for not
holding his hands behind his back for a
few seconds seven more days for
misrepresenting himself whatever it
means 15 days for we actually have the
information what for 15 days because
they didn't like him 12 days for a talk
about mobilization during his court
trial 14 more days for refusing to clean
defense in the prison 11 days for poorly
cleaned exercise yard and insulting The
Legend and neymovich addressing him as
Legend of neymarish but not using his
first name and patronymic instead 11
days for the button thin once again and
here's my favorite 12 days for Saint
bled which is like a common Russian
swear word 15 days for washing face half
an hour earlier than washing time in the
prison rules and 8 days for
misrepresenting himself once again which
makes it more than 113 days already and
Counting I just wanted to share this
list so you can remember some stuff like
what has happened things are inside
Russia and maybe spread word about that
to your friends or people you know so
more people are actually aware what is
going on in my home country
the last scene before moving to more
personal stuff is again rumors about
closed borders of Russia I already
talked about that in my previous video
since that time we had only one new
piece of information and I almost wanted
to like Let It Go without mentioning it
on this update but then I saw a post on
Constantine's Channel inside Russia
Channel and I was like wait a bit it's
actually not true so I wanted to add
this to my update as well so basically
what Constantine and many other news
outlets say about this piece of news in
Russia they say stuff like starting
March 1st 2023 all Russian and foreign
citizens live in Russia by car must
reserve a healthy date and time of cross
in Russia's border that's actually not
true starting from March 1st 2023
regular Russian people they don't need
to apply for any kind of approval
traveling by car we indeed have a new
regulation but for now it's only about
the commercial drivers the ones who
drive really large trucks and make
terrible traffic jams I believe if we
have the same exactly same news update
let's say two years ago before the war
many people will be actually happy to
hear such update because these trucks
usually a huge pain in the ass like when
I was traveling from Russia to Georgia
by car in July last year that was the
most terrible traffic jam in my life we
waited in that line for many hours
straight and one of the reasons why that
was so busy is the trucks but I
understand why this news kind of scared
people because I can easily imagine that
sometime after Russian authorities do
another update to that low saying that
okay from now on it's not only related
to commercial truck drivers but for the
entire population of Russia that's not
happening right in this moment but once
again I will not be surprised to see it
happen someday in the future but anyway
I wanted to mention it and stick to the
fact that the entire population of
Russia does not to have any approval to
leave Russia by car starting from like
March 1st 2023 at least in the moment
when I'm uploading this video here now
it's time to have a bit more personal
update so let's go grab a coffee and
talk some personal stuff
[Music]
so yeah welcome to Vietnam it's going to
be my destination for next two months
I'm gonna stay inside Ho Chi Minh City
and then go to a smaller mountain town
named the lot so if by any chance
anybody is visiting these places just
hit me up you're definitely gonna have a
little beer party in Saigon before I
leave this place so what can I say about
myself in Vietnam basically it's been
already three weeks since the time when
Lisa came back to Russia and I found
myself having so much time and so much
space just for myself I'm still getting
used to it and sometimes I quite Miss
Lisa but this sad time disappears once I
see what is here around me I'm basically
exploring a new country for myself and I
am so in love with that right now if you
watched my videos for a while I think
you learned one fact about me already is
that I love traveling I like
experiencing new things I like going to
new places and being in Vietnam right
now gives me so much energy to explore
what's around me basically every single
day I learned a lot about life in
Vietnam the differences they have in
their like daily life some things feel
disturbing here some things feel super
great here for example this coffee shop
like Vietnam is just Superior about
coffee shop culture and I'm not talking
about just Coffee Culture like coffee
culture here is pretty decent but coffee
shop culture is superior to every single
country I've visited before and the list
goes to like 16 or 17 countries already
I think if I was about to make only one
video about Vietnam there's gonna be a
video about their coffee and coffee shop
culture every single day here I try to
explore new places every single day also
have Vietnamese coffee and I see
people of all ages going to have a drink
like either have a tea or coffee in the
coffee places I see here they are just
amazing but enough about coffee during
these days I also spent my time for
improving at making videos and also
talking to camera literally every single
day I'm trying to talk better and better
I don't know if you actually noticed if
I have any progress in like delivering
my messaging camera please go comment
and say if you see any difference
between let's say Nikki right now and
Nikki two or three months ago another
thing that I'm doing recently is I try
to find work life balance once again in
2022 I produced a lot of videos and this
year I took a break and it's kind of
hard to find the work life balance once
again but actually I think I am on the
right path I'm still working on my
russian-speaking Club Community
basically trying to make it a space
where everybody who wants to practice
and improve Russia has enough room to do
that and I hope you're having a good
January thank you so much for being with
me super big thanks to my patreon and
YouTube members spiciba and Paka