we have such a massive difference in
media coverage between our countries
it's like barrier between Russia and the
rest of the world something that makes
us harder to understand each other like
the news that you see in your local
media turn opposite way in Russian media
some news highlight only most preferable
events and some events can be even found
in our media at all in this video I'm
going to show you how Russian State
media are portraying major recent events
the historic or should they say hysteric
referendums the Nordstrom sabotage and
also the intercepted calls of Russian
soldiers to their friends and families
hi my name is Nikki on this channel I
have a variety of videos on my previous
life in Russia and recently I started
upload more videos on my life outside of
Russia if you enjoy watching my videos
please consider subscribing with a
notification Bell and maybe supporting
me on patreon or YouTube memberships
thank you for that and let's dive to the
bottom of Russian news
first things that I have for you is the
annexation party that happened in the
last day of September if you missed
anything The Story Goes Like This in
late September there were annexation
referendum stage in four occupied
territories of Ukraine it was called
sham referendum since the west and
historic events in Russia as expected
absolute majority of people voted for
joining to Russia and I don't think
anyone might have any different
expectations taken into account how
exactly the referendums were organized a
few days later Mr Putin hosted a
celebration for accepting new
territories had a very patriotic and
anti-west speech and signed all
necessary papers as I see the Western
media say that it's like a theater play
of desperate Russian president and that
those territories will never become
Russia you tell me what actually your
local news say about that we write that
in the comments and here's what exactly
an ordinary Russian person might see on
state TV
[Music]
its first channel news and Andrei uhuri
video Vladimir Putin this morning signed
laws on the entry of the Donetsk and
lugansk People's Republic as well as
zaparosia and Harrison regions into the
Russian Federation the relevant document
is published on the official internet
portal of Legal Information here's all
major points from that news report about
annexation so basically they share in
details how exactly those occupied
territory is going to be a part of
Russia and they use in a very
interesting dramatic construction saying
that those territories are entering low
and economic field of our common country
and until January the first year 2026 it
will be a small transition period of
getting those territories inside Russia
since January the first of the next year
the only legal currency on those
territories will be Russian Ruble
technically in Russia you only can use
Russian Ruble to pay for stuff like
going groceries or buying whatever you
want like Apartments car whatever so
they gave themselves couple of months to
get rid of Ukrainian money and basically
start using Russian money straight away
before June the first of the next year
there shall be created special
territorial branches of federal Russian
government and there will be elections
for that news also mentioned a good
level of monetary and social support for
people who keep living in those
territories I think I can describe the
main narrative from Russian media
talking about this stuff by two words
which means Russia forever and that is
the phrase that they use in every single
of those four regions basically stating
that Russia comes to those places
forever and that is kind of strong words
that I don't really understand why they
keep using because one day Russia and
our president say that Russia is there
forever and they are taking those
territories but at the same time there
are still military actions happening in
those territories and like how can
Russia promise that it will be there
forever like literally in the last day
of September Russia holds that kind of
celebration of acceptance of those
territories to Russia right at the time
when Ukrainian Army was progressing and
doing counter-referencing very close to
this territories I'm talking about Limon
like there is one thought that I have in
my mind thinking about that when our
president uses such kind of strong
narrative saying that it will be forever
like Russia is forever in those
territories then he has no right to make
another mistake and basically he has to
stick to his words that is forever
otherwise people who are supporting him
like the most supportive Z Patriots will
be asking like unnecessary questions and
maybe even get angry at him if these
strong words appear to be not true and
here I want to share a word about this
video sponsor ground news an app and
website I've been using to learn about
issues we discussed in this video what
they do is they let me to compare news
across political Spectrum so you can see
how one story is covered from different
sides and that's exactly what I show you
in this what Russian media tell us
series let me show you how it works so
that is the latest news about Mr Putin
signing low and X in four Ukrainian
regions on the top third summary by
ground news briefly telling you what the
news is about on here you can see easy
coverage details in this particular case
you can see that there's like 131
different sources for this story right
below that you can see the bias
distribution and you can see that most
coverage comes from the center and the
left and right have about equal similar
percentage there's no real disbalancing
coverage of this particular news so
that's a good sign and from here you can
pick the Articles either from left
Center or right and start reading give
it a try and support my channel in the
process for this use my link
ground.news Nikki Prussian to try it for
free or subscribe for additional
features now coming back to the video so
these annexation story is a good example
how one Global event can be presented
from two different sites the next piece
of news I have for you might be a bit
less polarized yet the Nordstrom
sabotage here is a short story for you
Nordstrom is a player of natural gas
pipelines that run under the Baltic Sea
from Russia to Germany on September 26
two pipelines of nordstream one and a
part of Nordstrom 2 were damaged two
days later Russian Federal Security
Service stated that it was an act of
international terrorism and they started
their own investigation two more days
later Mr Putin accused endless Saxons I
guess that's another example of Russian
Newspeak like in Orwell's 1984 so yeah
Putin accused endless Accents in
Nordstrom sabotage and he literally said
that just sanctions are not enough for
English accents they switched to
sabotage on gas pipelines in fact they
began to destroy the pan-european energy
infrastructure as I see in European
media there is a variety opinions on
this very subject and European news have
been like very very careful of what they
say and here is what a typical Russian
person will see in our state news
not just a sabotage but an act of
international terrorism this is how
Vladimir Putin calls the attack on the
Russian gas pipelines of the north
stream system the endless accents
according to the president have already
begun to destroy the European energy
structure you can't say otherwise while
the Baltic has been talking for days on
blown up gas pipelines confused
Europeans seem to not want to seek the
truth but the American Trace is already
so obvious that it's simply impossible
to cover it the overseas Patron deprived
European countries even of the hope of
using Russian gas and European
politicians seem ready to publicly
justify their Patron
Russia's foreign intelligence service
directly states that Moscow has data
that points to a Western Trail
sanctions are not enough for Endless
accents they have switched to sabotage
unbelievable but its effect by
organizing explosions on the
international gas pipelines of the north
stream which runs along the bottom of
the Baltic Sea in fact they began to
destroy the pan-european energy
infrastructure it's clear who might
benefit from this scene and it's clear
that the beneficiary is the one who did
it
this news report appeared to be like
quite long and here's all the major key
points from the news of course they
accuse the USA in doing this sabotage on
the North stream and they kinda have all
reasons to say so and to accuse these
states simply because in the beginning
of this year American Presidents said
some stuff about like stop in the north
stream and finding a way to do that
there will be uh we there will be no
longer on North stream too we we will
bring an end to it how would you how
will you do that exactly since the
project and control of the project is
within Germany's control we will
I promise you we'll be able to do it so
right now Russian media use that part of
Biden's interview to say hey that's the
job of America and additionally this
news report shows more info on previous
sabotages done by United States of
America and also provides a lot of tiny
and maybe even unnecessary details on
what was happening around the north
stream during the last year a good part
of that news report also talks about the
outcome of these Nordstrom sabotage to
European countries basically telling how
life in Europe will be different after
this Nordstrom incident and also
mentioned briefly about European
journalists who cannot say anything
against America during these days Nick
is the editor is here right at the day
when I finished editing this video we
had another huge news happened in Russia
I'm talking about the Crimean Bridge
explosion and I thought it would be
super interesting to add this particular
news in our video because it happened so
recently and it's also a very hot topic
for conversations for Russian people
like in real life and also in the web
and this time instead of watching
Russian TV I'm gonna show you an online
newspaper and there's one things that I
want to mention about online newspapers
like we are going to have a look right
now first of all they do have high
factuality on the stuff on certain
issues like these creamy and Bridge
stuff but this factuality might be based
on the words of Russian authorities
which is not always trustworthy so every
time when I read articles at places like
that I see at facts that are based on
the time locations or anything like that
and I'll take it as like really high
factuality but every single time I see
the article refers to words from local
authorities or anything like that that's
the time when I have some doubts about
like Is that real or not this time we
are having a look at length.row one of
many state-owned newspapers and they did
really great job at actually showing us
the major the key points of this issue
it's really simple to read articles like
that and perhaps we're missing some
additional details but it's like really
really easy to understand and first of
all they say about the location and the
time early morning 607 there was the
explore ocean at Crimean or Carriage
Bridge and according to Russian news the
reason for this explosion was a truck
full of explosives right after that all
movement between Crimea and the mainland
of Russia basically stopped and our
federal authorities started to say that
they'll fix it ASAP and local
authorities started to say that they
have enough supplies like food Fuel and
all the necessary stuff for surviving
for some period of time without having a
connection with Russia it took about
half a day to somehow fix that part of
the bridge so right now they have
partial connection using that bridge
with like so many precautions that
weren't there before and also there is
one Ferry started operation already
although that could not deliver like big
amount of people or supplies immediately
local authorities started to say that
they have all necessary supplies like
food and fuel and everything to kind of
survive when they have no good
connection with the mainland of Russia
and local authorities literally say that
they do have a 40-day supply of fuel and
at the same time while saying that they
have all necessary supplies they started
to have some limitations for people to
buy stuff for example if local people in
Crimea want to buy some fuel for their
cars they only can buy it inside of
their cars I don't know if that makes
sense like what I mean right now they
cannot go to the gas station and buy gas
in a separate container they only can
pour it inside of their cars directly
they also had some limitations for
purchasing some Staples like the most
basic food in this article it says that
one person can buy no more than three
kilograms of this and that and that kind
of product and right after saying that
the article has a huge disclaimer saying
that such limitations were really there
in the first half a day after the
explosion but right now there is nothing
like that in the region it will be
actually really interesting to learn if
such kind of war is true or not and the
last piece of information that I can see
in this article is some words about
tourists who visited Crimea during these
days basically it says that there are
more than 50 thousands of Russian
tourists from staying right now in
Crimea and local government promises
them to cover the cost of additional
stay in their hotels I think people who
are traveling around Crimea right now
are quite happy to hear about that as
for business and hotel owners I guess
they might be very concerned about this
promise of government because like I'm
sure nobody asks them anything about
providing free recommendation for like
50 plus thousands of people there is not
much information in this article what
exactly how exactly the explosion
happened I guess we're gonna learn that
in the next couple of days and now
coming back to the last piece of news
and the last quick example is something
that is like completely missing in
Russian news I don't think I'll be able
to find that in any of Russian State
media I'm talking about recent article
on New York Times about intercepted
calls of Russian soldiers that actually
happened quite a while ago its
conversations of Russian soldiers who
were talking to their friends families
like to their moms and when I was
listening to that I literally was having
Goosebumps I'm not going to give you any
examples on this video you can easily
find that on the web and as for people
who watch like Russian State media
believe me it never appeared in Russian
TV and even if Z Patriots will see such
kind of information such kind of news
most likely they would say that it's all
fake or Western propaganda as I said in
the beginning this kind of barrier makes
us harder to understand each other but I
hope that someday we will find an
understanding and come back to Peaceful
times someday thank you for being with
me spasiba and Paka