on October 19th the president of Russia
announced martial law in Russia for the
first time since the end of Great
Patriotic War a big German Russian
that's what we call the Eastern front of
World War II in the period of time from
June 22 1941 to May 9th 1945 and that's
the only history be time having in this
video because today we're gonna talk
about martial law in Russia what does it
mean for regular Russian people and how
does Russian State media is actually
portraying this very issue is
my name is Nikki I'm a regular guy
coming from Russia I just wanted to
remind you that in my channel I have a
variety of content updates on Russia
that you're watching right now but also
lifestyle and travel videos from the
countries I visit recently I left Russia
and traveled to Turkey right now I'm
staying in Thailand so expect some
videos from here as well I hope you'll
enjoy it so on October 19th Mr Putin
announced the martial law and that
actually sounded like partial martial
law just like partial mobilization he
announced a month ago right after
announcing the martial law I started to
see a lot of videos popping up on
YouTube basically explaining what does
this martial law means and so on I saw
that many people were commenting about
like what the [ __ ] it's not a martial
law in Russia it's actually was applied
to the occupied territories of Ukraine
and I understand why people say so
because the martial law was fully
applied only to four regions basically
to Donetsk and lugan's people's
republics and to zaparosia and her Zone
regions and here you certainly can say
that these territories are occupied
territories of Ukraine which has
certainly occupied territories of
Ukraine but inside Russia things look
different these regions are considered
to be a part of Russia inside Russia
itself basically when I see Russian news
they use the term new territories to
describe these places and because of
that Russian president was able to refer
to Russian Constitution what a lovely
word to set this martial law it's fully
applied to those four regions and
partially applied to the entire
territory of Russia just recently we got
some magical new terms that were
described in the latest decrease
security regime average level of
response level of high Readiness and
level of basic Readiness whatever it
means now a bit more details there are
two degrees related to this martial law
in the first decree Vladimir Putin
ordered to set martial law in four
regions and noticed then when it's
necessary that might be partially
applied to the entire territory of
Russia I think the second part is like
really important because basically now
we have a situation when our
constitutional rights in Russia might be
compromised on legal basis it's not like
we didn't have any troubles with our
human rights and freedoms before but now
it will be like more legally to censor
stuff and the other stuff that Russian
governments wants to do I really like
the ways that Google translate
translates a part of the document it
basically says that during the period of
Martial law citizens enjoy all the human
and civil rights and freedoms
established by the Constitution of the
Russian Federation with the exemption of
the rights and freedoms the Restriction
of which is established by the federal
constitutional law and other federal
laws and here's just a part of things
that our government can legally do right
now so right now Russian government can
censor nearly anything they can take
property of citizens and companies they
can close borders police can check
private belongings like phones letters
and so on they can set curfew cancel
elections prohibit protests and do many
others stuff but the most important
thing is it might be scalable to the
entire country you know I deliberately
waited for a week before actually
recording this video because I thought
okay that time we have this big
announcement and during the next week we
gonna have much more details and
information about that maybe some
examples of how this martial law is
being applied in those four regions and
in Russia itself but I think I was kinda
wrong about that there definitely were a
lot of news about the martial laws
announcement but then we have kind of
Silence about it there are just some
random reports about very minor things
and basically that's what we have right
now now let's have a look how media is
covering this topic with ground news
this app and website complies over 50
000 new sources from all around the
world so you can compare your coverage
and see the ownership factuality and
political bias of these sources
reporting for example you can see that
323 sources are reporting on Putin
declaring martial law 68 of those
sources are left leaning 48 lean right
and 107 are Center 12 of these sources
are independently owned eight percent
are government owned and 43 are media
conglomerates but what's really powerful
about ground news is that you can see
how news outlets around the world are
framing this story for example Russia
Today a government-owned media Outlet
says Putin introduces martial law in
former Ukrainian regions cgtn a
government-owned publication in China
describes them as new regions while many
other high-factuality sources around the
world describe areas as illegally and
next regions I especially like that you
can click into each article and read it
in full from the original source to stay
informed on issues not only on Russia
but all around the world go to
ground.news Nikki proshen and subscribe
for as little as one dollar a month
trying to support a small team of media
Outsiders trying to make new small
transparent now let's have a look what
does Russian State media tell about
military loan basically what do regular
Russian people see in their news reports
foreign
[Music]
is it's literally the most epic news
report intro I've seen in my life and
could you think like why won't they do
it this way maybe they will feel more
patriotic after watching this sequence
and will better accept the farther news
[Applause]
here I paused for a moment trying just
comprehend what I've just watched
Russian news reporter says about total
confrontation to Total terrorism while
showing how Russian missiles hit a city
at least I tried to do some research and
looks like that footage of a warship
that is a Russian warship next follows a
picture of a city hit by missile and
supposedly that is the capital of
Ukraine Kiev and then we see the
explosion right next to regular people
is
it actually feels like that the main
message of this news report is not to
inform Russian people about the recent
changes and how the martial law will
affect their life but rather push the
narrative about bad bad West and good
good Russia following by a confident
speech of one of Russian generals who is
surely not reading the script
foreign
you know I don't even want to translate
that later in the news they talk more
about details and different levels of
Martial law and gradually describing
what can local authorities do right now
compare it what they could not do before
the martial law and you know I
specifically like these guys saying some
stuff about the rise of powers of local
authorities recently wrenches
my goodness what a report so they told a
lot about how exactly these martial law
Works in Russia and by the end of the
report they somehow managed to finish
this Storyline by saying that it's
important to be United and to be like
one society that works together I guess
Russian propaganda knows what they are
doing anyways I want to focus your
attention on two things that we heard in
this news report first the way how they
actually replied the martial law and
second the level of that basic Readiness
that basically touches the entire
territory of Russia is that such a
controversial situation when you might
say that these are not territories of
Russia but you I think should understand
that Russia treats them as a part of
country and in this very context of
applying martial law in Russia those
territories are considered to be a part
of Russia it's not what I personally
think it's just what I see in all recent
legal documents coming from Russian
government and you might disagree with
that and do not accept that but at the
same time these kind of documents and
decisions they affect not only those
territories but the entire population of
Russia well and the second thing that I
wanted to focus your attention on is
they basically entire population of
Russia and other territories that stay
afar from Ukraine these subjects of
Russian Federation they are having that
basic level of Readiness and so far it
does not sound very bad for people who
hear about it just basic level of
Readiness all right and our authorities
are very happy to actually push this
line that this basic level of Readiness
is like almost nothing like the mayor of
Moscow Sergey sabanin in his telegram
Channel he says such stuff like in
current time right now there is no
things there is no limitations on
regular life life just goes on as usual
the same narrative we have in other
regions of Russia basically local
authorities say that oh yes we have this
basic level of Readiness but knows the
daily life like regular life keeps going
on nothing really changes and yeah looks
like life in Moscow and life in other
subjects of Russia hasn't changed much
yet right now many politicians across
Russia they say that nothing really
changed with all recent updates and
looks like they really want to deliver
these ideas that everything is kinda all
right that everything is normal maybe
that's the reason why since the days of
Martial law was announced there are no
other big news across Russia in any
territories that staying afar from
Ukraine but I think it's just a matter
of time when local authorities and our
federal government are gonna use new
powers they just recently acquired now
our authorities say a lot of things for
example the borders will not be closed
and so on and so on but we all know that
before they actually say stuff like
there will be no war there will be no
mobilization there will be no military
law in Russia and here we are right now
let's see what's gonna happen in the
future best wishes from Thailand spasiba
and Paca