according to former Russian president I
am now the Enemy of the State together
with every single individual who enters
a large group of people who firstly
stand against the war between Russia and
Ukraine secondly publicly voiced this
opinion and thirdly left Russia because
of this opinion just wow guys it's not a
real thing yet but scene where things
are going for Russia you know I wouldn't
be shocked to see if this becoming a
real issue I haven't been uploading
since the Christmas time and oh man I
have a lot of things to share in this
video the traitor thin scary Putin's New
Year's speech rumors about a new wave of
mobilization and about closed border for
men even crazier propaganda on our TV
and also some personal updates
I'll start with a big personal thing and
if you are new here my name is Nikki
since year 2021 I was making videos
about my life in Russia first on Tik Tok
then on YouTube and last year in 2022 I
basically made content about what the
heck is happening there in Russia back
in September 2022 I decided to leave
Russia because I couldn't stand that no
longer especially after Z mobilization
news the first wave and right now more
than three months after that day I can
surely say that decision was just
life-changing to me and we are only two
weeks in 2023 and I just had another
life-changing event in my life real
short about it listen I broke up now we
are just good friends she's back to
Saint Petersburg a few days ago and
honestly I'm feeling quite sad about it
even though I was the one who initiated
to this breakup thing still feeling sad
about the facts that we broke up and she
came back to Russia I hope Lisa will
make out of Russia someday soon again
that is the reason why I did not upload
in so Christmas time I needed some time
for a break and also I wanted to spend
more time obviously said before she
comes back to Russia from the good side
now I have much more time for myself and
my channel yeah now let's talk about two
rumors that we had recently during the
New Year I'm talking about new bigger
mobilization wave and closed borders for
men first of all these are just rumors
for now but here you should understand
one thing about living in Russia Russia
is a state where law is not something
solid it's rather something flexible
fluid and it highly depends to decisions
and desires of our President we already
have plenty of examples when a new law
is introduced and accepted within a
really short period of time they also
have examples of our politicians and
here I'm talking about like really
political heavy Vapes people at very
high positions promising that X thing is
not gonna happen and short time after X
happens not even a single time multiple
times yeah YouTube
really China president
[Music]
um
[Music]
another thing that you should understand
about Russia is that the mobilization
that started in September it's actually
not finished yes our president stated
that the memorization is over but that
was just his words without any legal
ground under that I think that's why
people keep talking about this
mobilization thin and closed border
thing it's still rumorous but nobody
knows what tomorrow will look like in
Russia especially taking into account
the words of our lovely politicians here
are some facts for you in late December
Minister of Defense of Russia Sega said
that perhaps they should make some
difference make a change into Army
conscription law perhaps because current
edition does not meet all their needs
according to current conscription law
every single man in Russia is very few
exceptions should spend one year serving
to Russian army in time periods from 18
to 27 years old Mr shagu wants to
achieve this age system from 1827 to 21
30 years old and interestingly he talks
separately about increasing the minimum
age of going to Army and maximum age of
going to Army and for the first time
when I heard about that I was like wait
a bit I will not be surprised if they
actually increase the maximum age first
up to 30 years old and will be much
slowly increasing minimum age from 18 to
21. I think you understand what I mean
shortly after our president supported
this decision and again shortly after
another Russian politician Andrea
cartapolov he is a former Russian
officer in rank of Colonel General
currently a member of Russian Parliament
he explained how exactly this modified
Army conscription system will work in
2023. I will simplify his words
basically what he says is every single
Army Department in Russia will get
drafting plan and we'll start drafting
people accordingly to this plan first of
all they will focus on finding mine of
age 21 to 30 years old and if the
drafting plan is falling short and
surely it will be fallen short they will
start looking for men from 1821 so
basically what he said is Russian army
is gonna draft people from 18 to 30
years old in this year and you know for
me that is very crucial I am 28 years
old and when I turned 28 I thought okay
so there's not going to be a situation
when I will be conscripted to Army maybe
I don't know at least that's a regular
constrict but looks like this year a
person of my age will be fitting this
Army conscription law once again so even
though the mobilization is not happening
at the moment at full scale they're
definitely gonna be some major changes
in Russia this year now let's talk about
the possibility of closed borders it is
a much shorter story a few days ago
Ukraine leaked Russian supposedly
official documents stating that Russia
is gonna close close border for men of
drafting age starting from January 9th
and then Russia replied that it's all
fake news it's not happening and indeed
right now the borders are not closed for
anybody in Russia but people kinda
believe it might happen someday like a
few days ago I had a talk with my mom we
talked about various stuff and also
talked about the possibility of Russia
closing its borders and basically having
another Iron Curtain like many years ago
and my mom lives in a big provincial
City in Siberia and I found out that her
Social Circle has quite a few people who
actually believe that Russia is closing
borders of course it's not an objective
example but I think it indicates the
general mood quite well so basically
people in Russia will not be too
surprised to see that this rumors
someday will appear to be true now let's
talk about the traitor's thing or how Mr
midwif calls it the enemies of the state
short story two big waves of image
immigration happened last year in 2022
first in March people rushed out of
Russia because of Russia started the war
with Ukraine and if you watched my
videos from early 2022 you might see one
of my Vlogs from protests in St
Petersburg and you might see one of my
friends joining me at this anti-war
protests his name is Dima and he escaped
Russia in March in September 2022 even
more people decided to leave Russia
because of the immobilization and that
was the time when I also decided that I
got a leave and because of that I could
see Dima in person once again I have no
idea what is the exact number of people
who escaped Russia in 2022 but I'm sure
this is a seven digit number more than a
million of socially active and smart
people people who could afford living
and relocating to another country left
Russia that's a big loss for our
government in terms of Texas and no
surprise they are not happy about that
in September and October I saw a lot of
new use a lot of words of our
politicians describing people who left
Russia as traitors and now they started
to come up with ideas how to somehow
profit from these traitors multiple
politicians said that it's necessary to
stop traitors from receiving any income
from within Russia don't let them come
back to Russia unless they publicly say
that they regret about decision of
living confiscate their property and use
the money from selling this property to
support these special military operation
the war they basically said a lot of
things like that but none of them is
real for now although I will not be
really surprised if they actually make
it real someday you know I'm actually
not surprising about seeing all the BS
happening in my country anymore although
there is one thing that I actually feel
surprised like hysterically surprised
about that the new year speech of our
president I believe that President's New
Year Speech is like a tradition in most
countries around the world at least in
Russia people watches that every single
year even if they don't like Putin last
couple of years I spent New Year Eve
with my family at my hometown the city
of omskill Siberia and we basically
gathered home we talked to each other we
cook a lot of holiday food and then at
certain period of time about 15 minutes
before the new year starts before
midnight somebody will say hey it's
gonna be New Year soon let's watch our
president and see what else besky has to
say this year and we watched him like a
comedy show every single New Year same
happened this year I wasn't in Russia I
spent New Year in Bangkok together with
Lisa and Dima and once it was closer to
midnight we couldn't miss this annual
comedy show performed by our president
and he didn't let us down
foreign
this year New Year's speech was quite
terrifying instead of having a lovely
holiday speech and somehow Inspire the
entire population of Russia and I
believe a lot of people were watching
him that day he decided to use this
speech as additional opportunity to push
the war agenda once again and he talked
a lot about the evil vest that uses
Ukraine as a tool to weaken and divide
Russia is
foreign
actors and they are paid actors that
play in various kinds of government
propaganda so before New Year they had
to stand maybe 30 minutes in a row maybe
even longer to make this shot of them
being a background for our president's
speech take somebody from let's say one
year ago show them this footage this
speech and I'm sure that person will
think that it's just a stupid joke and I
don't know computer simulation anyways I
don't want to make this video too long I
wanted to talk about even crazier
Russian TV propaganda during the last
couple of weeks but I think I'll leave
it to the next video If you find my
videos interesting go hit that like
button and subscribe to my channel and
if you want to support me even more
please consider joining my patreon or
YouTube memberships