this feels super weird I literally
having an appointment with somebody who
I found on telegram or random groups
that offered exchange service from any
currency I have into any currency they
have before this year I couldn't even
imagine that being a citizen of one
country will make me financially
disabled in the outer world like I had
to find a solution even for paying for
these snacks because all the ways didn't
work I haven't seen anyone talking about
this side of leaving Russia yet so get
ready to hear some interesting details
about how Russians survive financially
while being abroad
without money you can do very little in
modern world even taking this cheap
Ferry and getting those snacks from
7-Eleven and especially very little when
it comes to relocating from one country
to another which is exactly my case this
year and because I'm coming from Russian
I faced some serious complications
financially thanks joining to this
interesting question today I have a lot
of things to share with you talking
about what problem Russian people face
financially in general and my situation
specifically simply speaking our bank
cards don't really work anywhere outside
of Russia and right now I'm staying in
Bangkok and these three cards are like
useless piece of plastic for me well
technically it's not set use this piece
of plastic because I still can use it
for purchases inside Russia
but I literally cannot use them at any
physical location while staying outside
of Russia it's not possible to withdraw
foreign cash at Russian ATMs at the
moment and it's also more complicated to
convert The Exchange Russian cash into
foreign currency cash once again inside
Russia and all this stuff makes people
to be a bit more creative at solving
these money problems and before we
continue I want to thank today's sponsor
private internet access it's a simple to
use VPN app that is almost absolute
necessity for me when I am online there
are many cases where you can find a VPN
service handy for you for example for me
the most common case is change in my
location and getting access to
geo-restricted content or services for
example when I stayed in Russia I used
private internet access even for Such
trivial things as getting access to my
email provider here is another scenario
for you as you might know soon we're
gonna have 2022 World Cup and in some
countries it's completely free to watch
it online while somewhere else you gotta
pay for a subscription for watching it
via streaming services private internet
access provides a solution for users who
wants to watch it legally for free by
connecting to foreign servers and
watching it on BBC iPlayer or ITV Player
and there are many other benefits of
using a VPN you can try it out using my
link in description and clicking this
link helps to support my channel but
also gets you three additional months
for free on two-year plan and if you try
that and somehow find that not useful
for you there is 30 day money back
guarantee now let's come back to token
money and first let me explain what
exactly goes wrong for Russians you know
not talking about made government we
have just financially speaking so it all
started when visa and MasterCard left
Russia basically puts their sanctions
and my country and since that time using
Banks and credit cards became a bit more
complicated in Russia before leaving
every single time I need to pay for
anything in Russia I used my Mastercard
and I was all right with that but at the
moment when you leave Russia and want to
use your bank card for example for
withdrawing money from an ATM or paying
something and also when you want to
purchase anything online from a foreign
company your bank card simply doesn't
work I guess most of you actually
actually knows that what you might not
know is that Russia has their own
banking system it's called Mir which is
translated as peace in English and
Russia started to develop this saying
system quite a long ago I didn't have
any mirror cards before I found them
like I didn't really need to use any of
them but once visa and MasterCard kind
of left Russia I applied for this kind
of Mir card and since that time I
haven't used it even single time still
it might be quite useful even for
Russians who are planning on going
abroad because in some countries where
visa and MasterCard issued in Russia
didn't work properly you still can use
these mirror cards for example in some
neighboring countries to Russia like
Kazakhstan Belarus Armenia maybe
Mongolia as well not really sure about
Mongolia though and it also works in
some countries quite far away from
Russia like I was surprised to hear that
in Vietnam you can actually use these
mirror cards in Turkey you can use it
partially and people also can find the
place in the United Arab Emirates and
apparently in thousand career to use the
smear cars although that might be very
complicated and not really suitable for
most of people who decided to like
relocate to another country so this
situation when our bank cards become
like kind of useless when going abroad
Russian people invented something new
that is cold right now Bank tourism or
car tourism basically a lot of people
were going abroad solely for applying
for a bank card of that country I know
many people went to Kazakhstan to
Belarus to Armenia to Turkey and also to
Georgia where I visited in August 2022
and kinda joined this car tourists and
applied for Bank of Georgia card which
is still here it's meme in Thailand and
that's really really useful many of
people I personally know went abroad
just to apply for Ben cards and came
back happily holding these band cards we
didn't really have such kind of car
tourism anytime before in Russia but
apparently this year it's fully
Justified especially for people who plan
on leaving Russia and relocating abroad
you know because you can't really rely
on using foreign currency cash anymore I
mean if you are coming from from Russia
as I said earlier it's impossible to
withdraw any foreign currency in Russia
at the moment and on this Ben card I
actually have some dollars left and if I
stayed in Russia there's literally no
chance I can actually get these dollars
in cash and if you wonder how can a bank
just doesn't give you your money in
Russia since March we have some kind of
Regulation telling that you cannot
withdraw any foreign currency from
Russian ATMs if Zed got into your
account after March 9th and if somehow
you had foreign currency before for
example you received it back in January
this year or maybe you had some savings
account in dollars or in Euros like
years before that then yeah somebody
with this situation can withdraw his or
her money but there is a limit of ten
thousand dollars for such withdrawal so
literally if somebody had like much more
money in his savings like believe me
he's not happy about that anymore and
it's not actually like I cannot access
this money anymore for example I have
about 500 left on my bank card in Russia
and what I can do is transfer offer it
digitally from foreign currency into
rubles with a very very bad currency
exchange rate and then withdraw Russian
rubles but you know when you go abroad
you don't actually want to have any
Russian rubles you want to have like
American dollars or euros and here you
might say that okay you can withdraw
Russian rubles from ATMs get your money
from bank and then go exchange it from
rubles to foreign currency but again
that's not that easy for now Banks
actually can exchange rubles into
dollars or Euros of British pounds but
there are some limitations on it and
actually by the time when I was planning
on leaving Russia back in September I
couldn't find the place where to
exchange my rubles into dollars so I
kinda had to find another way and even
if somebody will find a way to get
foreign cash in Russia then by crossing
the border he will face a limit on
taking cash money outside of the country
basically there is a limit of ten
thousand dollars you cannot take any
more in cash and ten thousand dollars is
actually good amount of money right but
when we are talking about lifelong
savings or money from selling an
apartment in this case 10 game dollars
is actually not that huge and if you're
thinking about International transfers
for withdrawing your money from Russian
Banks to somewhere abroad that also
isn't really possible so people found
some shady ways of getting their money
out of Russia and here comes my personal
story I think first I gotta share how
exactly I earn my money and how do I
receive it at least I saw quite a few
questions about like hey Nikki what do
you do for a living and the answer is
I'm making videos for a living basically
running this YouTube channel maybe you
heard before that YouTubers from Russia
were kinda demonetized before which is
not true it's actually not like that
what they did to a Russian segment of
YouTube is simply turning off all
advertisement for users from Russia and
basically Channels with Russian audience
lost a lot of Revenue so many Russian
channels started to earn significantly
less because their audience basically
did not see any advertisement any ads on
the videos which is not my case because
basically most of you are coming from
other countries not from Russia so yeah
I'm just happy to see that YouTube still
works for me and I'm receiving payments
from YouTube every single months they
believe without any problems at all
there are a few more platforms that I
use for monetizing my channel basically
I use patreon it's a place where people
can support their favorite creators on
monthly basis and I also use PayPal and
buy me a coffee for single donations and
all these platforms like patreon PayPal
and buy me a coffee they work completely
fine for me only because I took my time
to go to Georgia and apply for this
wonderful Ben card without this that
will be like a real nightmare to receive
payments from any foreign companies like
really my life will be much more
complicated if I don't have this band
card with this card I basically can do
every single action that you can do with
your Banks and this card was really a
lifesaver for me although the time when
I stayed in Turkey I couldn't use that
for some period of time as that was
completely empty I spent every single
dollar that I had on this bank and I had
to wait for some time to receive
payments for that and in those days I
explored Russian internet and Russian
telegram channels on how the heck can I
actually transfer my Russian money into
this Georgian bank card or maybe into
cash and I found the way with the help
of kinda Shady telegram groups and
middlemen it was possible for me to
exchange rubles that I had on this band
card into Dollar Cash in the middle of
Istanbul I got the address of an office
where I should go in like in five
minutes
and you know at first I thought that
maybe it's not the best idea to actually
do that because the process looked quite
ridiculous I had Russian rubles which I
needed to exchange into usdt
cryptocurrency that is connected to
American dollar then I had to go to a
random office in the middle of Istanbul
and send this usdt cryptocurrency to
that person from telegram group like
literally no contract nothing like that
just his words that everything is gonna
be all right and also people's reviews
who exchanged money with that person
earlier I think he agrees that having
such kind of exchange can actually be a
fraud but apparently I tried to monitor
the telegram group and see what people
say about that and to see if that
actually feels and looks legit and he
decided okay I gotta try to exchange
some amount of money with that person so
I went to that random office in the
middle of Istanbul and I transferred
some amount of money into that person's
usdt wallet and five minutes later a
Turkish guy in that office just gave me
my money so partly for me that was not a
fraud but I wonder how many people
actually faced any kind of like bad
situations doing these exchanges anyways
that was a weird experience that was a
real weird experience I just got outside
of the office got money and right now
what I'm gonna do is finding an exchange
office and maybe exchange like a one or
two hundred dollars just to see if there
you know is a real like not fake
apparently this Risky Business worked
out and I received all the dollars that
I was promised to receive and I was able
to exchange a part of it in this local
currency exchange so looks pretty legit
and you know I feel that all this stuff
kind of makes me less connected with
Russia because right now I'm using a
Georgian Bank I'm using a Thai phone
number I keep using foreign services for
booking flights and accommodation and
the only thing that connects me to
Russia is people like my friends and
family and also two of my Russian
passports that actually might be very
interesting to talk why we have two
passports in Russia and how that
actually works is it actually more
difficult to travel abroad as a Russian
right now or not I guess that's ever
very interesting topic to discuss and I
might make a video about that next
spaceba and Paka