with partisan political opinion is
sharing biased this is a textbook
example of the whole being greater than
the sum of its parts we work very hard
to seek the truth and strive to be fair
balanced and factual seen individually
the sinclair editorials do not make much
of an impact but when Timothy Burke a
video editor in Tampa Florida collected
44 versions of that editorial from 44
local news markets and lay them side by
side allowing Americans to play them
back word-for-word this is extremely
dangerous to our democracy the effect
was chilling
this is extremely dangerous to our
democracy Orwellian it was actually
fairly horrifying about a minute and a
half up and decrying biased platforms
pushing out fake news that endangered
our democracy the sharing of biased in
false news is become all too common on
social media the anchors for the most
part fairly skip a couple of people have
compared them to hostage videos so for a
few seconds it's actually kind of funny
and then you sort of turn in to what
they're saying and it becomes more and
more horrifying and whether the people
understand exactly the politics and
conglomeration aspects that go into a
message like this these people all they
know is they saw a scary video where a
bunch of news anchors were saying the
same thing and now their favorite news
anchors are saying the same thing we are
extremely proud of the Equality balanced
journalism that ABC News for producers
and they're just like you're one of them
when they learned that the Sinclair
Broadcast Group was manipulating news
content the reaction of many Americans
was just what is Sinclair
unlike Fox News CNN and MSNBC Sinclair
does not own a national news network so
what's brand was not that well-known but
it does own 173 local TV stations
covering 40% of American households
since those channels are affiliated with
national broadcasting brands ABC NBC and
bs they display those logos rather than
their parent companies up until now
Sinclair sent editorials from the
company's headquarters in Maryland that
their channels were required to
broadcast my goal with every segment is
to tell you facts which you may not
already know typically the so called
must runs are fronted by a Sinclair
executive Boris Epstein he worked on
Donald Trump's election team
some critics would have you believe that
my experience somehow disqualifies me
for providing you with my analysis and
commentary this time the company changed
the formula and got its local anchors to
deliver the message instead it was
caught and found itself in an unfamiliar
position in the spotlight if you wanted
to come up with the perfect strategy for
how to manipulate or warp the dialogue
in America you wouldn't buy one big
cable channel or one big broadcast
channel know if you're savvy about this
you would buy local affiliates in
markets across the country get into
every major city every region to
communicate a message and then if you
can put that message in the mouths of
hundreds of local anchors who have been
on air in some cases for many many years
that's a much better strategy for
warping the discourse there's also
something else worth mentioning for all
the attention CNN MSNBC Fox begat in
fact most Americans actually get their
news if they're watching television from
local news not from the national
networks be vaycay Bowl or broadcast the
anchors they are very well known in
their communities they tend to be active
in charities they show up for special
events we are having an incredible night
tonight we are crushing cancer but there
are also the people talking about things
that you might have seen on your street
you might have seen you know the next
town over there giving you the weather
from your community the question now is
what a neighbor's do about it and you've
come to trust them over time this is a a
reality of local news it's how it works
there's something particularly
treacherous about taking these
from Sinclair's corporate headquarters
and putting them in the mouths of
journalists who are trusted to the point
that now audiences can't tell whether or
not the information they're consuming
actually comes from these local
journalists or if there's a giant
conservative corporate Goliath pulling
the strings and the Goliath wants to
grow Sinclair has a three point nine
billion dollar merger deal in place with
Tribune Media which would land
Sinclair another 42 local TV stations
including in major markets like New York
Chicago and Washington boosting its
reach from 40% of American homes to more
than 70% the merger requires the
approval of the FCC the u.s. broadcast
regulator and given the FCC's recent
track record since Donald Trump put
Chairman Ajit PI in the job last year
the regulator is not likely to stand in
the company's way Ajit Pi was appointed
as chair of the FCC by the Trump
administration and in less than a year
he has absolutely gutted the remaining
media ownership rules that the FCC had
in place and he has made it more
possible for large broadcasters like
Sinclair to buy out almost every media
outlet in your community all of that has
been done specifically to grease the
wheels for this merger between Sinclair
and Tribune which before Chairman PI's
chairmanship would have been absolutely
impossible to approve because it
violated so many of these FCC rules when
the FCC was developed back in the 30s
the core concept was diverse ownership
you wanted a lot of different owners in
a lot of different places there was a
vision of that that goes back a very
very long way this assaults that vision
it basically says no you have one little
group of people sitting in an office
someplace and they decide what's being
discussed all across the country
having been drawn out of the shadows
it's heavy-handed editorial methods
exposed and ridiculed Sinclair has come
out swinging it responded to questions
put to it by New York Magazine by saying
that print media is so left-wing as to
be meaningless that it has no
credibility
however actions and broadcast output
speak much louder than words and when
Sinclair put out another editorial this
past week it reverted to its old formula
as you see my segments are very clearly
marked as commentary the same cannot be
said for cable and broadcast news hosts
who inject their opinions and bias into
news coverage all the time one talking
head at head office delivering the
corporate message rather than relying on
Sinclair's local anchors and what
remains of their credibility that's one
of the things I think that Sinclair is
gonna have to deal with so many people
have been exposed to this video that
they have to be able to explain to that
audience why their local news is still
trustworthy are they going to attempt to
repair what is been a massive damage to
their image are they going to pull back
from interfering in their newsrooms on a
daily basis I don't know what's happened
with Sinclair is actually really good
it's great that we have seen this thing
happened with all the anchors reading
the same lines across the country
because we've had a real-life example of
what we should be afraid