we're extremely proud of the quality
balanced journalism that CBS 4 News
produces website Deadspin posted this
montage last week of sinclair news
anchors reading the same script work
forward the message expresses concern
for what they call a troubling trend of
irresponsible one-sided news stories the
editorial isn't overly partisan but
reads like something that donald trump
would agree with you could pick a
reporter a Baltic reporter ideally real
news not fake news and sure enough the
president tweeted his support of
Sinclair right afterwards but
journalists around the country and
elsewhere were less supportive I think
Cena Clair is probably the most
dangerous company in all of our American
media prompting a question from many why
didn't the anchors who didn't want to
read it refused or quit this was a
disgrace across the board on the part of
the journalists involved that led a team
at Bloomberg News to investigate they
found many of the Sinclair employees are
bound by an unusual employment contract
Jordan Holman was one of the bloomberg
reporters on that story so Jordan let's
talk about the contract first what's in
it that's unusual for Sinclair employees
it can be very expensive to leave there
is a clause in their contract that lays
out the terms of if they quit so it's
called liquidated damages and in those
liquidated damages it says if you leave
before your contract is over they are
able the company's able to charge you 40
percent of your annual compensation
before you leave I've never heard of
anything like that I've been in this
business a while I've heard of
non-compete clauses I've even heard of
people having to give up severance I
have never heard of people actually
having to remit their salary 40 percent
right so when I was speaking to lawyers
about this clause they said for ordinary
workers they might never see that you
know they might never see it in any of
their contracts but in broadcast is more
common among on-air anchors where it
would be expensive for a company to have
to train and find new talent to bring in
what's unusual
what's Sinclair is that they had some
people who never appeared on TV having
to sign that clause so it actually does
sound like a way of enforcing this
notion that a we write it and we want
you to say it you have no choice but to
potentially default on your mortgage
yeah some employees did feel like they
were kind of being held hostage you know
it's an expensive thing to leave and if
you can't if you're in a local market
and you want to be a journalist there
might not be another place to go so they
had to wait you know financial penalties
with also other job prospects as you
mentioned many of these stations are
local markets and yet as we saw just a
moment ago it was creating national
headlines they were talking about it on
all the cable networks we saw MSNBC
talking about it who saw it you know Joe
Scarborough talking about it
how is Sinclair reacting to the
attention it's got not just to this this
dictate that they all had to say the
same thing but the revelation that many
of them are doing it because they don't
see any choice so it's important to note
that Sinclair is the largest broadcaster
in the u.s. they have a huge reach so
they have many journalists all over the
country in their stance right now is
that they are just promoting making sure
that there is media integrity that
there's not fake news but inside some
employees feel that they don't want to
work here anymore that the political
conservative lien is getting in the way
of the factual journalism that they want
to do we did hear this week that one
person has stood up at one of these
stations and said I quit didn't really
want to be associated with all that's
full note of this but do you have a
sense that others will follow suit or be
bound by this contract yes my colleagues
and I we spoke to one man who quit he
was working in a Florida station and he
left before his contract was over and
one fear that a lot of Sinclair
employees have is that they wouldn't
need to hire a lawyer they will be sued
if they actually leave and that was the
case with this man the company sued him
for leaving early so that's just one
thing that everyone's weighing like will
I have to hire a lawyer that does not
come cheap and what's
my next steps what any interesting
finding in these contracts thanks for
talking about it thanks for having me